6D80.0  Dementia due to Alzheimer disease with early onset  

  
Dementia is characterized by the presence of marked impairment in two or more cognitive domains 
relative to that expected given the individual’s age a nd general premorbid level of cognitive 
functioning, which represents a decline from the individual’s previous level of functioning. Memory 
impairment is present in most forms of dementia, but cognitive impairment is not restricted to memory 
(i.e., there i s impairment in other areas such as executive functions, attention, language, social 
cognition and judgment, psychomotor speed, visuoperceptual or visuospatial abilities). 
Neurobehavioural changes may also be present and, in some forms of dementia, may be the 
presenting symptom. Cognitive impairment is not attributable to normal aging and is severe enough to 
significantly interfere with independence in an individual’s performance of activities of daily living. The 
cognitive impairment is presumed to be attr ibutable to an underlying acquired disease of the nervous 
system, a trauma, an infection or other disease process affecting the brain, or to use of specific 
substances or medications, nutritional deficiency or exposure to toxins, or the etiology may be 
undetermined. The impairment is not due to current substance intoxication or withdrawal.  
Coding Note:  This category should only be used for primary tabulation, if the aetiology of the 
dementia is unknown. If the aetiology of the dementia is known code to the 
aetiology of the dementia for primary tabulation.  
When dementia is due to multiple aetiologies, code all that apply.  
Inclusions:  Dementia NOS  
Exclusions:  Coma (MB20.1)  
Delirium (6D70)  
Disorders of intellectual development (6A00)  
Neurodevelopmental disorde rs (6A00‑6A0Z)  
Stupor (MB20.0)  
Ageing associated decline in intrinsic capacity (MG2A)  
  6D80   Dementia due to Alzheimer disease  
Dementia due to Alzheimer disease is the most common form of dementia. Onset is 
insidious with memory impairment typically repo rted as the initial presenting 
complaint. The characteristic course is a slow but steady decline from a previous 
level of cognitive functioning with impairment in additional cognitive domains (such 
as executive functions, attention, language, social cognit ion and judgment, 
psychomotor speed, visuoperceptual or visuospatial abilities) emerging with disease 
progression. Dementia due to Alzheimer disease may be accompanied by mental 
and behavioural symptoms such as depressed mood and apathy in the initial stag es 
of the disease and may be accompanied by psychotic symptoms, irritability, 
aggression, confusion, abnormalities of gait and mobility, and seizures at later 
stages. Positive genetic testing, family history and gradual cognitive decline are 
suggestive of Dementia due to Alzheimer disease.  
Coding Note:  This category should never be used in primary tabulation. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify the 
presence of dementia in diseases classified els ewhere.  
 ICD-11 MMS  575 
 