6E40.0  Mental disorder affecting disorders or diseases classified elsewhere  


In addition to the cognitive disturbances characteristic of dementia, the current 
clinical picture includes clinically significant wandering that puts the person at risk of 
harm.  
 
6D86.Y  Other specified behavioural or psychological disturbances in dementia  
Coding Note:  These categories should never be used in primary tabulation. The codes are 
provided for use as supplementary or addit ional codes when it is desired to identify 
the presence of behavioural or psychological disturbance in dementia.  
Code all that apply.  
 
6D86.Z  Behavioural or psychological disturbances in dementia, unspecified  
Coding Note:  These categories should never be used in primary tabulation. The codes are 
provided for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify 
the presence of behavioural or psychological disturbance in dementia.  
Code all that apply.  
 
  6D8Y   Dementia, other specified cause  
Coding Note:  This category should only be used for primary tabulation, if the aetiology of the 
dementia is unknown. If the aetiology of the dementia is known code to the 
aetiology of the dementia for primary tabulation.  
When dementia is due to multiple aetiologies, co de all that apply.  
 584  ICD-11 MMS  
   6D8Z   Dementia, unknown or unspecified cause  
Coding Note:  This category should only be used for primary tabulation, if the aetiology of the 
dementia is unknown. If the aetiology of the dementia is known code to the 
aetiology of the d ementia for primary tabulation.  
When dementia is due to multiple aetiologies, code all that apply.  
 
  6E0Y   Other specified neurocognitive disorders  
 
  6E0Z   Neurocognitive disorders, unspecified  
 
Mental or behavioural disorders associated with pregnanc y, childbirth or the puerperium 
(6E20‑6E2Z)  
Syndromes associated with pregnancy or the puerperium (commencing within about 6 weeks after 
delivery) that involve significant mental and behavioural features. If the symptoms meet the diagnostic 
requirements fo r a specific mental disorder, that diagnosis should also be assigned.  
Coded Elsewhere:  Psychological disorder related to obstetric fistula (GC04.1Y)  
  6E20   Mental or behavioural disorders associated with pregnancy, childbirth 
or the puerperium, without p sychotic symptoms  
A syndrome associated with pregnancy or the puerperium (commencing within 
about 6 weeks after delivery) that involves significant mental and behavioural 
features, most commonly depressive symptoms. The syndrome does not include 
delusions,  hallucinations, or other psychotic symptoms. If the symptoms meet the 
diagnostic requirements for a specific mental disorder, that diagnosis should also be 
assigned. This designation should not be used to describe mild and transient 
depressive symptoms th at do not meet the diagnostic requirements for a depressive 
episode, which may occur soon after delivery (so -called postpartum blues).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
  6E21   Mental or behavioural disorders associated with pregnancy, childbi rth 
or the puerperium, with psychotic symptoms  
A syndrome associated with pregnancy or the puerperium (commencing within 
about 6 weeks after delivery) that involves significant mental and behavioural 
features, including delusions, hallucinations, or other psychotic symptoms. Mood 
symptoms (depressive and/or manic) are also typically present. If the symptoms 
meet the diagnostic requirements for a specific mental disorder, that diagnosis 
should also be assigned.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
  6E2Z   Mental or behavioural disorders associated with pregnancy, childbirth 
or the puerperium, unspecified  
 ICD-11 MMS  585 
   6E40   Psychological or behavioural factors affecting disorders or diseases 
classified elsewhere  
Psychological and behavioural factors affecting disorders or diseases classified 
elsewhere are those that may adversely affect the manifestation, treatment, or 
course  of a condition classified in another chapter of the ICD. These factors may 
adversely affect the manifestation, treatment, or course of the disorder or disease 
classified in another chapter by: interfering with the treatment of the disorder or 
disease by a ffecting treatment adherence or care seeking; constituting an additional 
health risk; or influencing the underlying pathophysiology to precipitate or 
exacerbate symptoms or otherwise necessitate medical attention. This diagnosis 
should be assigned only whe n the factors increase the risk of suffering, disability, or 
death and represent a focus of clinical attention, and should be assigned together 
with the diagnosis for the relevant other condition.  
Inclusions:  Psychological factors affecting physical condit ions 
Exclusions:  Mental or behavioural disorders associated with pregnancy, 
childbirth or the puerperium  (6E20‑6E2Z)  
 
