6D85.2)  


 
  6D82   Dementia due to Lewy body disease  
Dementia preceding or occurring within one year after the onset of motor 
parkinsonian signs in the setting of Lewy body disease. Characterized by presence 
of Lewy bodies, which are intraneuronal inclusions containing α -synuclein and 
ubiquitin in the brain stem, limbic area, forebrain, and neocortex. Onset is insidious 
with attentional and executive functioning deficits often present. These cognitive 
deficits are often accompanied by visual hallucinations and symptoms of REM sleep 
behaviour disorder. Halluci nations in other sensory modalities, depressive 
symptoms, and delusions may also be present. The symptom presentation usually 
varies significantly over the course of days necessitating longitudinal assessment 
and differentiation from delirium. Spontaneous onset of Parkinsonism within 
approximately 1 year of the onset of cognitive symptoms is common.  
Coding Note:  This category should never be used in primary tabulation. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to  identify the 
presence of dementia in diseases classified elsewhere.  
When dementia is due to multiple aetiologies, code all that apply.  
 
  6D83   Frontotemporal dementia  
Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is a group of primary neurodegenerative disorders 
primar ily affecting the frontal and temporal lobes. Onset is typically insidious with a 
gradual and worsening course. Several syndromic variants (some with an identified 
genetic basis or familiality) are described that include presentations with 
predominantly ma rked personality and behavioral changes (such as executive 
dysfunction, apathy, deterioration of social cognition, repetitive behaviours, and 
dietary changes), predominantly language deficits (that include semantic, 
agrammatic/nonfluent, and logopenic form s), predominantly movement -related 
deficits (progressive supranuclear palsy, corticobasal degeneration, multiple 
systems atrophy, or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis), or a combination of these 
deficits. Memory function often remains relatively intact, partic ularly during the early 
stages of the disorder.  
Coding Note:  This category should never be used in primary tabulation. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify the 
presence of dementia in diseases c lassified elsewhere.  
When dementia is due to multiple aetiologies, code all that apply.  
 ICD-11 MMS  577 
   6D84   Dementia due to psychoactive substances including medications  
Dementia due to psychoactive substances including medications includes forms of 
dementia that ar e judged to be a direct consequence of substance use and that 
persist beyond the usual duration of action or withdrawal syndrome associated with 
the substance. The amount and duration of substance use must be sufficient to 
produce the cognitive impairment.  The cognitive impairment is not better accounted 
for by a disorder that is not induced by substances such as a dementia due to 
another medical condition.  
Coding Note:  This category should never be used in primary tabulation. The codes are provided 
for use  as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify the 
presence of dementia in diseases classified elsewhere.  
When dementia is due to multiple aetiologies, code all that apply.  
Exclusions:  Dementia due to exposure to heavy metals and othe r toxins 
(