ICD-11 MMS  389 
 • Mental or behavioural disorders associated with pregnancy, childbirth or the puerperium  
• Secondary mental or behavioural syndromes associated with disorders or diseases classified 
elsewhere  
 
Neurodevelopmental disorders (6A00 ‑6A0Z)  
Neurodevelopmental disorders are behavioural and cognitive disorders that arise during the 
developmental period t hat involve significant difficulties in the acquisition and execution of specific 
intellectual, motor, language, or social functions. Although behavioural and cognitive deficits are 
present in many mental and behavioural disorders that can arise during the  developmental period 
(e.g., Schizophrenia, Bipolar disorder), only disorders whose core features are neurodevelopmental 
are included in this grouping. The presumptive etiology for neurodevelopmental disorders is complex, 
and in many individual cases is un known.  
Coded Elsewhere:  Primary tics or tic disorders (8A05.0)  
Secondary neurodevelopmental syndrome (6E60)  
  6A00   Disorders of intellectual development  
Disorders of intellectual development are a group of etiologically diverse conditions 
originating dur ing the developmental period characterised by significantly below 
average intellectual functioning and adaptive behaviour that are approximately two 
or more standard deviations below the mean (approximately less than the 2.3rd 
percentile), based on appropr iately normed, individually administered standardized 
tests. Where appropriately normed and standardized tests are not available, 
diagnosis of disorders of intellectual development requires greater reliance on 
clinical judgment based on appropriate assessm ent of comparable behavioural 
indicators.  
Coding Note:  Use additional code, if desired, to identify any known aetiology.  
Exclusions:  Dementia  (6D80‑6D8Z)  
 
6A00.0  Disorder of intellectual development, mild  
A mild disorder of intellectual development is a co ndition originating during the 
developmental period characterised by significantly below average intellectual 
functioning and adaptive behaviour that are approximately two to three standard 
deviations below the mean (approximately 0.1 – 2.3 percentile), ba sed on 
appropriately normed, individually administered standardized tests or by 
comparable behavioural indicators when standardized testing is unavailable. 
Affected persons often exhibit difficulties in the acquisition and comprehension of 
complex language  concepts and academic skills. Most master basic self -care, 
domestic, and practical activities. Persons affected by a mild disorder of intellectual 
development can generally achieve relatively independent living and employment 
as adults but may require app ropriate support.  
 390  ICD-11 MMS  
 6A00.1  Disorder of intellectual development, moderate  
A moderate disorder of intellectual development is a condition originating during the 
developmental period characterised by significantly below average intellectual 
functioning and ad aptive behaviour that are approximately three to four standard 
deviations below the mean (approximately 0.003 – 0.1 percentile), based on 
appropriately normed, individually administered standardized tests or by 
comparable behavioural indicators when standa rdized testing is unavailable. 
Language and capacity for acquisition of academic skills of persons affected by a 
moderate disorder of intellectual development vary but are generally limited to basic 
skills. Some may master basic self -care, domestic, and pr actical activities. Most 
affected persons require considerable and consistent support in order to achieve 
independent living and employment as adults.  
 
6A00.2  Disorder of intellectual development, severe  
A severe disorder of intellectual development is a c ondition originating during the 
developmental period characterised by significantly below average intellectual 
functioning and adaptive behaviour that are approximately four or more standard 
deviations below the mean (less than approximately the 0.003rd pe rcentile), based 
on appropriately normed, individually administered standardized tests or by 
comparable behavioural indicators when standardized testing is unavailable. 
Affected persons exhibit very limited language and capacity for acquisition of 
academic  skills. They may also have motor impairments and typically require daily 
support in a supervised environment for adequate care, but may acquire basic self -
care skills with intensive training. Severe and profound disorders of intellectual 
development are d ifferentiated exclusively on the basis of adaptive behaviour 
differences because existing standardized tests of intelligence cannot reliably or 
validly distinguish among individuals with intellectual functioning below the 0.003rd 
percentile.  
 
6A00.3  Disord er of intellectual development, profound  
A profound disorder of intellectual development is a condition originating during the 
developmental period characterised by significantly below average intellectual 
functioning and adaptive behaviour that are approx imately four or more standard 
deviations below the mean (approximately less than the 0.003rd percentile), based 
on individually administered appropriately normed, standardized tests or by 
comparable behavioural indicators when standardized testing is unava ilable. 
Affected persons possess very limited communication abilities and capacity for 
acquisition of academic skills is restricted to basic concrete skills. They may also 
have co -occurring motor and sensory impairments and typically require daily 
support in a supervised environment for adequate care. Severe and profound 
disorders of intellectual development are differentiated exclusively on the basis of 
adaptive behaviour differences because existing standardized tests of intelligence 
cannot reliably or va lidly distinguish among individuals with intellectual functioning 
below the 0.003rd percentile.  
 ICD-11 MMS  391 
 6A00.4  Disorder of intellectual development, provisional  
Disorder of intellectual development, provisional is assigned when there is evidence 
of a disorder of intellectual development but the individual is an infant or child under 
the age of four or it is not possible to conduct a valid assessment of intellectual 
functioning and adaptive behaviour because of sensory or physical impairments 
(e.g., blindness, pre -lingual deafness), motor or communication impairments, 
severe problem behaviours or co -occurring mental and behavioural disorders.  
 
6A00.Z  Disorders of intellectual development, unspecified  
Coding Note:  Use additional code, if desired, to identify any known aetiology.  
 
  6A01   Developmental speech or language disorders  
Developmental speech or language disorders arise during the developmental period 
and are characterised by difficulties in understanding o r producing speech and 
language or in using language in context for the purposes of communication that 
are outside the limits of normal variation expected for age and level of intellectual 
functioning. The observed speech and language problems are not attr ibutable to 
regional, social, or cultural/ethnic language variations and are not fully explained by 
anatomical or neurological abnormalities. The presumptive aetiology for 
Developmental speech or language disorders is complex, and in many individual 
cases,  is unknown.  
 
6A01.0  Developmental speech sound disorder  
Developmental speech sound disorder is characterised by difficulties in the 
acquisition, production and perception of speech that result in errors of 
pronunciation, either in number or types of speec h errors made or the overall quality 
of speech production, that are outside the limits of normal variation expected for age 
and level of intellectual functioning and result in reduced intelligibility and 
significantly affect communication. The errors in pr onunciation arise during the early 
developmental period and cannot be explained by social, cultural, and other 
environmental variations (e.g., regional dialects). The speech errors are not fully 
explained by a hearing impairment or a structural or neurolog ical abnormality.  
Inclusions:  Functional speech articulation disorder  
Exclusions:  Deafness not otherwise specified (AB52)  
Diseases of the nervous system  (Chapter 08)  
Dysarthria (MA80.2)  
Verbal apraxia (MB4A)  
 392  ICD-11 MMS  
 6A01.1  Developmental speech fluency disorder  
Developmental speech fluency disorder is characterised by frequent or pervasive 
disruption of the normal rhythmic flow and rate of speech characterised by 
repetitions and prolongations in sounds, syllables, words, and phrases, as well as 
blocking and word avoidance or substitutions. The speech dysfluency is persistent 
over time. The onset of speech dysfluency occurs during the developmental period 
and speech fluency is markedly below what would be expected for age. Spee ch 
dysfluency results in significant impairment in social communication, personal, 
family, social, educational, occupational or other important areas of functioning. The 
speech dysfluency is not better accounted for by a Disorder of Intellectual 
Developmen t, a Disease of the Nervous System, a sensory impairment, or a 
structural abnormality, or other speech or voice disorder.  
Exclusions:  Tic disorders (8A05)  
 
6A01.2  Developmental language disorder  
Developmental language disorder is characterised by persisten t deficits in the 
acquisition, understanding, production or use of language (spoken or signed), that 
arise during the developmental period, typically during early childhood, and cause 
significant limitations in the individual’s ability to communicate. The individual’s 
ability to understand, produce or use language is markedly below what would be 
expected given the individual’s age. The language deficits are not explained by 
another neurodevelopmental disorder or a sensory impairment or neurological 
conditio n, including the effects of brain injury or infection.  
Exclusions:  Autism spectrum disorder (6A02)  
Diseases of the nervous system  (Chapter 08)  
Deafness not otherwise specified (AB52)  
Selective mutism (6B06)  
 
6A01.20  Developmental language disorder with imp airment of receptive and expressive 
language  
Developmental language disorder with impairment of receptive and expressive 
language is characterised by persistent difficulties in the acquisition, understanding, 
production, and use of language that arise duri ng the developmental period, 
typically during early childhood, and cause significant limitations in the individual’s 
ability to communicate. The ability to understand spoken or signed language (i.e., 
receptive language) is markedly below the expected level  given the individual’s age 
and level of intellectual functioning, and is accompanied by persistent impairment in 
the ability to produce and use spoken or signed language (i.e., expressive 
language).  
Inclusions:  developmental dysphasia or aphasia, receptiv e type  
Exclusions:  acquired aphasia with epilepsy [Landau -Kleffner] (8A62.2)  
Autism spectrum disorder (6A02)  
Selective mutism (6B06)  
dysphasia NOS (MA80.1)  
Diseases of the nervous system  (Chapter 08)  
Deafness not otherwise specified (AB52)  
 ICD-11 MMS  393 
 6A01.21  Developmental language disorder with impairment of mainly expressive language  
Developmental language disorder with impairment of mainly expressive language is 
characterised by persistent difficulties in the acquisition, production, and use of 
language that arise during the developmental period, typically during early 
childhood, and cause significant limitations in the individual’s ability to 
communicate. The ability to produce and use spoken or signed languag e (i.e., 
expressive language) is markedly below the expected level given the individual’s 
age and level of intellectual functioning, but the ability to understand spoken or 
signed language (i.e., receptive language) is relatively intact.  
Inclusions:  Develo pmental dysphasia or aphasia, expressive type  
Exclusions:  acquired aphasia with epilepsy [Landau -Kleffner] (8A62.2)  
Selective mutism (6B06)  
dysphasia and aphasia: developmental, receptive type 
(6A01.20)  
dysphasia NOS (MA80.1)  
aphasia NOS (MA80.0)  
Diseases of the nervous system  (Chapter 08)  
Deafness not otherwise specified (AB52)  
 
6A01.22  Developmental language disorder with impairment of mainly pragmatic language  
Developmental language disorder with impairment of mainly pragmatic language is 
characterised b y persistent and marked difficulties with the understanding and use 
of language in social contexts, for example making inferences, understanding verbal 
humour, and resolving ambiguous meaning. These difficulties arise during the 
developmental period, typic ally during early childhood, and cause significant 
limitations in the individual’s ability to communicate. Pragmatic language abilities 
are markedly below the expected level given the individual’s age and level of 
intellectual functioning, but the other co mponents of receptive and expressive 
language are relatively intact. This qualifier should not be used if the pragmatic 
language impairment is better explained by Autism Spectrum Disorder or by 
impairments in other components of receptive or expressive lan guage.  
Exclusions:  Diseases of the nervous system  (Chapter 08)  
Selective mutism (6B06)  
 
6A01.23  Developmental language disorder, with other specified language impairment  
Developmental language disorder with other specified language impairment is 
characterised by persistent difficulties in the acquisition, understanding, production 
or use of language (spoken or signed), that arise during the developmental period 
and cause s ignificant limitations in the individual’s ability to communicate. The 
pattern of specific deficits in language abilities is not adequately captured by any of 
the other developmental language disorder categories.  
Exclusions:  Autism spectrum disorder (6A02)  
Diseases of the nervous system  (Chapter 08)  
Disorders of intellectual development (6A00)  
Selective mutism (6B06)  
 394  ICD-11 MMS  
 6A01.Y  Other specified developmental speech or language disorders  
 
6A01.Z  Developmental speech or language disorders, unspecified  
 
  6A02   Autism spectrum disorder  
Autism spectrum disorder is characterised by persistent deficits in the ability to 
initiate and to sustain reciprocal social interaction and social communication, an d by 
a range of restricted, repetitive, and inflexible patterns of behaviour, interests or 
activities that are clearly atypical or excessive for the individual’s age and 
sociocultural context. The onset of the disorder occurs during the developmental 
perio d, typically in early childhood, but symptoms may not become fully manifest 
until later, when social demands exceed limited capacities. Deficits are sufficiently 
severe to cause impairment in personal, family, social, educational, occupational or 
other imp ortant areas of functioning and are usually a pervasive feature of the 
individual’s functioning observable in all settings, although they may vary according 
to social, educational, or other context. Individuals along the spectrum exhibit a full 
range of in tellectual functioning and language abilities.  
Inclusions:  Autistic disorder  
Exclusions:  Rett syndrome (LD90.4)  
 
6A02.0  Autism spectrum disorder without disorder of intellectual development and 
with mild or no impairment of functional language  
All definiti onal requirements for autism spectrum disorder are met, intellectual 
functioning and adaptive behaviour are found to be at least within the average 
range (approximately greater than the 2.3rd percentile), and there is only mild or no 
impairment in the indi vidual's capacity to use functional language (spoken or 
signed) for instrumental purposes, such as to express personal needs and desires.  
 
6A02.1  Autism spectrum disorder with disorder of intellectual development and with 
mild or no impairment of functiona l language  
All definitional requirements for both autism spectrum disorder and disorder of 
intellectual development are met and there is only mild or no impairment in the 
individual's capacity to use functional language (spoken or signed) for instrumental 
purposes, such as to express personal needs and desires.  
 
6A02.2  Autism spectrum disorder without disorder of intellectual development and 
with impaired functional language  
All definitional requirements for autism spectrum disorder are met, intellectual 
functioning and adaptive behaviour are found to be at least within the average 
range (approximately greater than the 2.3rd percentile), and there is marked 
impairment in functional language (spoken or signed) relative to the individual’s age, 
with the indivi dual not able to use more than single words or simple phrases for 
instrumental purposes, such as to express personal needs and desires.  
 
6A02.3  Autism spectrum disorder with disorder of intellectual development and with 
impaired functional language  
All def initional requirements for both autism spectrum disorder and disorder of 
intellectual development are met and there is marked impairment in functional 
language (spoken or signed) relative to the individual’s age, with the individual not 
able to use more th an single words or simple phrases for instrumental purposes, 
such as to express personal needs and desires.  
 ICD-11 MMS  395 
 6A02.5  Autism spectrum disorder with disorder of intellectual development and with 
absence of functional language  
All definitional requirements for  both autism spectrum disorder and disorder of 
intellectual development are met and there is complete, or almost complete, 
absence of ability relative to the individual’s age to use functional language (spoken 
or signed) for instrumental purposes, such as to express personal needs and 
desires  
 
6A02.Y  Other specified autism spectrum disorder  
 
6A02.Z  Autism spectrum disorder, unspecified  
 
  6A03   Developmental learning disorder  
Developmental learning disorder is characterised by significant and persistent 
difficulties in learning academic skills, which may include reading, writing, or 
arithmetic. The individual’s performance in the affected academic skill(s) is 
markedly below wha t would be expected for chronological age and general level of 
intellectual functioning, and results in significant impairment in the individual’s 
academic or occupational functioning. Developmental learning disorder first 
manifests when academic skills ar e taught during the early school years. 
Developmental learning disorder is not due to a disorder of intellectual 
development, sensory impairment (vision or hearing), neurological or motor 
disorder, lack of availability of education, lack of proficiency in the language of 
academic instruction, or psychosocial adversity.  
Exclusions:  Symbolic dysfunctions (MB4B)  
 
6A03.0  Developmental learning disorder with impairment in reading  
Developmental learning disorder with impairment in reading is characterised by 
significant and persistent difficulties in learning academic skills related to reading, 
such as word reading accuracy, reading fluency, and reading comprehension. The 
individual ’s performance in reading is markedly below what would be expected for 
chronological age and level of intellectual functioning and results in significant 
impairment in the individual’s academic or occupational functioning. Developmental 
learning disorder w ith impairment in reading is not due to a disorder of intellectual 
development, sensory impairment (vision or hearing), neurological disorder, lack of 
availability of education, lack of proficiency in the language of academic instruction, 
or psychosocial a dversity.  
Exclusions:  Disorders of intellectual development (6A00)  
 396  ICD-11 MMS  
 6A03.1  Developmental learning disorder with impairment in written expression  
Developmental learning disorder with impairment in written expression is 
characterised by significant and persi stent difficulties in learning academic skills 
related to writing, such as spelling accuracy, grammar and punctuation accuracy, 
and organisation and coherence of ideas in writing. The individual’s performance in 
written expression is markedly below what wo uld be expected for chronological age 
and level of intellectual functioning and results in significant impairment in the 
individual’s academic or occupational functioning. Developmental learning disorder 
with impairment in written expression is not due to a disorder of intellectual 
development, sensory impairment (vision or hearing), a neurological or motor 
disorder, lack of availability of education, lack of proficiency in the language of 
academic instruction, or psychosocial adversity.  
Exclusions:  Disorde rs of intellectual development (6A00)  
 
6A03.2  Developmental learning disorder with impairment in mathematics  
Developmental learning disorder with impairment in mathematics is characterised 
by significant and persistent difficulties in learning academic ski lls related to 
mathematics or arithmetic, such as number sense, memorization of number facts, 
accurate calculation, fluent calculation, and accurate mathematic reasoning. The 
individual’s performance in mathematics or arithmetic is markedly below what woul d 
be expected for chronological or developmental age and level of intellectual 
functioning and results in significant impairment in the individual’s academic or 
occupational functioning. Developmental learning disorder with impairment in 
mathematics is not  due to a disorder of intellectual development, sensory 
impairment (vision or hearing), a neurological disorder, lack of availability of 
education, lack of proficiency in the language of academic instruction, or 
psychosocial adversity.  
Exclusions:  Disorder s of intellectual development (6A00)  
 
6A03.3  Developmental learning disorder with other specified impairment of learning  
Developmental learning disorder with other specified impairment of learning is 
characterised by significant and persistent difficulties  in learning academic skills 
other than reading, mathematics, and written expression. The individual’s 
performance in the relevant academic skill is markedly below what would be 
expected for chronological age and level of intellectual functioning and resul ts in 
significant impairment in the individual’s academic or occupational functioning. 
Developmental learning disorder with other specified impairment of learning is not 
due to a disorder of intellectual development, sensory impairment (vision or 
hearing),  neurological disorder, lack of availability of education, lack of proficiency in 
the language of academic instruction, or psychosocial adversity.  
Exclusions:  Disorders of intellectual development (6A00)  
 
6A03.Z  Developmental learning disorder, unspecified  
 ICD-11 MMS  397 
   6A04   Developmental motor coordination disorder  
Developmental motor coordination disorder is characterised by a significant delay in 
the acquisition of gross and fine motor skills and impairment in the execution of 
coordinated motor skills that manife st in clumsiness, slowness, or inaccuracy of 
motor performance. Coordinated motor skills are markedly below that expected 
given the individual's chronological age and level of intellectual functioning. Onset of 
coordinated motor skills difficulties occurs during the developmental period and is 
typically apparent from early childhood. Coordinated motor skills difficulties cause 
significant and persistent limitations in functioning (e.g. in activities of daily living, 
school work, and vocational and leisure a ctivities). Difficulties with coordinated 
motor skills are not solely attributable to a Disease of the Nervous System, Disease 
of the Musculoskeletal System or Connective Tissue, sensory impairment, and not 
better explained by a Disorder of Intellectual De velopment.  
Exclusions:  Abnormalities of gait and mobility (MB44)  
Diseases of the musculoskeletal system or connective tissue  
(Chapter 15)  
Diseases of the nervous system  (Chapter 08)  
 
  6A05   Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder  
Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder is characterised by a persistent pattern (at 
least 6 months) of inattention and/or hyperactivity -impulsivity that has a direct 
negative impact on academic, occupational, or s ocial functioning. There is evidence 
of significant inattention and/or hyperactivity -impulsivity symptoms prior to age 12, 
typically by early to mid -childhood, though some individuals may first come to 
clinical attention later. The degree of inattention an d hyperactivity -impulsivity is 
outside the limits of normal variation expected for age and level of intellectual 
functioning. Inattention refers to significant difficulty in sustaining attention to tasks 
that do not provide a high level of stimulation or f requent rewards, distractibility and 
problems with organisation. Hyperactivity refers to excessive motor activity and 
difficulties with remaining still, most evident in structured situations that require 
behavioural self -control. Impulsivity is a tendency to act in response to immediate 
stimuli, without deliberation or consideration of the risks and consequences. The 
relative balance and the specific manifestations of inattentive and hyperactive -
impulsive characteristics varies across individuals and may ch ange over the course 
of development. In order for a diagnosis to be made, manifestations of inattention 
and/or hyperactivity -impulsivity must be evident across multiple situations or 
settings (e.g., home, school, work, with friends or relatives), but are l ikely to vary 
according to the structure and demands of the setting. Symptoms are not better 
accounted for by another mental, behavioural, or neurodevelopmental disorder and 
are not due to the effect of a substance or medication.  
Inclusions:  attention defi cit disorder with hyperactivity  
attention deficit syndrome with hyperactivity  
 398  ICD-11 MMS  
 6A05.0  Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, predominantly inattentive 
presentation  
All definitional requirements for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder are met and 
inattentive symptoms are predominant in the clinical presentation. Inattention refers 
to significant difficulty in sustaining attention to tasks that do not provide a high level 
of stimulation or frequent rewards, distractibility and problems with organisati on. 
Some hyperactive -impulsive symptoms may also be present, but these are not 
clinically significant in relation to the inattentive symptoms.  
 
6A05.1  Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, predominantly hyperactive -impulsive 
presentation  
All definition al requirements for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder are met and 
hyperactive -impulsive symptoms are predominant in the clinical presentation. 
Hyperactivity refers to excessive motor activity and difficulties with remaining still, 
most evident in st ructured situations that require behavioural self -control. Impulsivity 
is a tendency to act in response to immediate stimuli, without deliberation or 
consideration of the risks and consequences. Some inattentive symptoms may also 
be present, but these are not clinically significant in relation to the hyperactive -
impulsive symptoms.  
 
6A05.2  Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, combined presentation  
All definitional requirements for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder are met. Both 
inattentive and hyperactive -impulsive symptoms are clinically significant, with 
neither predominating in the clinical presentation. Inattention refers to significant 
difficulty in sustaining attention to tasks that do not provide a high level of 
stimulation or frequent rewards, distractibility and problems with organisation. 
Hyperactivity refers to excessive motor activity and difficulties with remaining still, 
most evi dent in structured situations that require behavioural self -control. Impulsivity 
is a tendency to act in response to immediate stimuli, without deliberation or 
consideration of the risks and consequences.  
 
6A05.Y  Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, o ther specified presentation  
 
6A05.Z  Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, presentation unspecified  
 
  6A06   Stereotyped movement disorder  
Stereotyped movement disorder is characterised by the persistent (e.g., lasting 
several months) presence of volun tary, repetitive, stereotyped, apparently 
purposeless (and often rhythmic) movements that arise during the early 
developmental period, are not caused by the direct physiological effects of a 
substance or medication (including withdrawal), and markedly inte rfere with normal 
activities or result in self -inflicted bodily injury. Stereotyped movements that are 
non-injurious can include body rocking, head rocking, finger -flicking mannerisms, 
and hand flapping. Stereotyped self -injurious behaviours can include re petitive head 
banging, face slapping, eye poking, and biting of the hands, lips, or other body 
parts.  
Exclusions:  Tic disorders (8A05)  
Trichotillomania (6B25.0)  
Abnormal involuntary movements (MB46)  
 ICD-11 MMS  399 
 6A06.0  Stereotyped movement disorder without self -injury  
This category should be applied to forms of Stereotyped movement disorder in 
which stereotyped behaviours markedly interfere with normal activities, but do not 
result in self -inflicted bodily injury. Stereotyped movement disorder without self -
injury is ch aracterised by voluntary, repetitive, stereotyped, apparently purposeless 
(and often rhythmic) movements that arise during the early developmental period, 
are not caused by the direct physiological effects of a substance or medication 
(including withdrawal ), and markedly interfere with normal activities. Stereotyped 
movements that are non -injurious can include body rocking, head rocking, finger -
flicking mannerisms, and hand flapping.  
 
6A06.1  Stereotyped movement disorder with self -injury  
This category should be applied to forms of Stereotyped movement disorder in 
which stereotyped behaviours result in self -inflicted bodily injury that is significant 
enough to require medical treatment, or woul d result in such injury if protective 
measures (e.g., helmet to prevent head injury) were not employed. Stereotyped 
movement disorder with self -injury is characterised by voluntary, repetitive, 
stereotyped, apparently purposeless (and often rhythmic) movem ents that arise 
during the early developmental period, are not caused by the direct physiological 
effects of a substance or medication (including withdrawal). Stereotyped 
movements that are self -injurious can include head banging, face slapping, eye 
poking , and biting of the hands, lips, or other body parts.  
 
6A06.Z  Stereotyped movement disorder, unspecified  
 
  6A0Y   Other specified neurodevelopmental disorders  
 
  6A0Z   Neurodevelopmental disorders, unspecified  
 400  ICD-11 MMS  
 Schizophrenia or other primary psychotic di sorders (6A20 ‑6A2Z)  
Schizophrenia and other primary psychotic disorders are characterised by significant impairments in 
reality testing and alterations in behaviour manifest in positive symptoms such as persistent 
delusions, persistent hallucinations, diso rganised thinking (typically manifest as disorganised speech), 
grossly disorganised behaviour, and experiences of passivity and control, negative symptoms such as 
blunted or flat affect and avolition, and psychomotor disturbances. The symptoms occur with s ufficient 
frequency and intensity to deviate from expected cultural or subcultural norms. These symptoms do 
not arise as a feature of another mental and behavioural disorder (e.g., a mood disorder, delirium, or 
a disorder due to substance use). The categor ies in this grouping should not be used to classify the 
expression of ideas, beliefs, or behaviours that are culturally sanctioned.  
Coded Elsewhere:  Substance -induced psychotic disorders  
Secondary psychotic syndrome (6E61)  
  6A20   Schizophrenia  
Schizophre nia is characterised by disturbances in multiple mental modalities, 
including thinking (e.g., delusions, disorganisation in the form of thought), 
perception (e.g., hallucinations), self -experience (e.g., the experience that one's 
feelings, impulses, though ts, or behaviour are under the control of an external 
force), cognition (e.g., impaired attention, verbal memory, and social cognition), 
volition (e.g., loss of motivation), affect (e.g., blunted emotional expression), and 
behaviour (e.g., behaviour that a ppears bizarre or purposeless, unpredictable or 
inappropriate emotional responses that interfere with the organisation of behaviour). 
Psychomotor disturbances, including catatonia, may be present. Persistent 
delusions, persistent hallucinations, thought di sorder, and experiences of influence, 
passivity, or control are considered core symptoms. Symptoms must have persisted 
for at least one month in order for a diagnosis of schizophrenia to be assigned. The 
symptoms are not a manifestation of another health c ondition (e.g., a brain tumour) 
and are not due to the effect of a substance or medication on the central nervous 
system (e.g., corticosteroids), including withdrawal (e.g., alcohol withdrawal).  
Exclusions:  Schizotypal disorder (6A22)  
schizophrenic reactio n (6A22)  
Acute and transient psychotic disorder (6A23)  
 
6A20.0  Schizophrenia, first episode  
Schizophrenia, first episode should be used to identify individuals experiencing 
symptoms that meet the diagnostic requirements for Schizophrenia (including 
duratio n) but who have never before experienced an episode during which 
diagnostic requirements for Schizophrenia were met.  
 
6A20.00  Schizophrenia, first episode, currently symptomatic  
All definitional requirements for Schizophrenia, first episode in terms of sym ptoms 
and duration are currently met, or have been met within the past one month.  
 ICD-11 MMS  401 
 6A20.01  Schizophrenia, first episode, in partial remission  
All definitional requirements for Schizophrenia, first episode in terms of symptoms 
and duration were previously m et. Symptoms have ameliorated such that the 
diagnostic requirements for the disorder have not been met for at least one month, 
but some clinically significant symptoms remain, which may or may not be 
associated with functional impairment. The partial remis sion may have occurred in 
response to medication or other treatment.  
 
6A20.02  Schizophrenia, first episode, in full remission  
All definitional requirements for Schizophrenia, first episode in terms of symptoms 
and duration were previously met. Symptoms have ameliorated such that no 
significant symptoms remain. The remission may have occurred in response to 
medication or other tre atment.  
 
6A20.0Z  Schizophrenia, first episode, unspecified  
 
6A20.1  Schizophrenia, multiple episodes  
Schizophrenia, multiple episodes should be used to identify individuals experiencing 
symptoms that meet the diagnostic requirements for Schizophrenia and wh o have 
also previously experienced episodes during which diagnostic requirements were 
met, with substantial remission of symptoms between episodes. Some attenuated 
symptoms may remain during periods of remission, and remissions may have 
occurred in respons e to medication or other treatment.  
 
6A20.10  Schizophrenia, multiple episodes, currently symptomatic  
All definitional requirements for Schizophrenia, multiple episodes in terms of 
symptoms and duration are currently met, or have been met within the past on e 
month.  
 
6A20.11  Schizophrenia, multiple episodes, in partial remission  
All definitional requirements for Schizophrenia, multiple episodes in terms of 
symptoms and duration were previously met. Symptoms have ameliorated such that 
the diagnostic requiremen ts for the disorder have not been met for at least one 
month, but some clinically significant symptoms remain, which may or may not be 
associated with functional impairment. The partial remission may have occurred in 
response to medication or other treatme nt. 
 
6A20.12  Schizophrenia, multiple episodes, in full remission  
All definitional requirements for Schizophrenia, multiple episodes in terms of 
symptoms and duration were previously met. Symptoms have ameliorated such that 
no significant symptoms remain. T he remission may have occurred in response to 
medication or other treatment.  
 
6A20.1Z  Schizophrenia, multiple episodes, unspecified  
 
6A20.2  Schizophrenia, continuous  
Symptoms fulfilling all definitional requirements of Schizophrenia have been present 
for almost all of the illness course over a period of at least one year, with periods of 
subthreshold symptoms being very brief relative to the overall course.  
 402  ICD-11 MMS  
 6A20.20  Schizophrenia, continuous, currently symptomatic  
All definitional requirements for Schizophr enia, continuous in terms of symptoms 
and duration are currently met, or have been met within the past one month.  
 
6A20.21  Schizophrenia, continuous, in partial remission  
All definitional requirements for Schizophrenia, continuous in terms of symptoms 
and duration were previously met. Symptoms have ameliorated such that the 
diagnostic requirements for the disorder have not been met for at least one month, 
but some clinically significant symptoms remain, which may or may not be 
associated with functional imp airment. The partial remission may have occurred in 
response to medication or other treatment.  
 
6A20.22  Schizophrenia, continuous, in full remission  
All definitional requirements for Schizophrenia, continuous in terms of symptoms 
and duration were previously met. Symptoms have ameliorated such that no 
significant symptoms remain. The remission may have occurred in response to 
medication or other treatm ent. 
 
6A20.2Z  Schizophrenia, continuous, unspecified  
 
6A20.Y  Other specified episode of schizophrenia  
 
6A20.Z  Schizophrenia, episode unspecified  
 
  6A21   Schizoaffective disorder  
Schizoaffective disorder is an episodic disorder in which the diagnostic 
requirements of schizophrenia and a manic, mixed, or moderate or severe 
depressive episode are met within the same episode of illness, either 
simultaneously or within a few days of each other. Prominent symptoms of 
schizophrenia (e.g. delusions, hallucination s, disorganisation in the form of thought, 
experiences of influence, passivity and control) are accompanied by typical 
symptoms of a moderate or severe depressive episode (e.g. depressed mood, loss 
of interest, reduced energy), a manic episode (e.g. an ext reme mood state 
characterised by euphoria, irritability, or expansiveness; increased activity or a 
subjective experience of increased energy) or a mixed episode. Psychomotor 
disturbances, including catatonia, may be present. Symptoms must have persisted 
for at least one month. The symptoms are not a manifestation of another medical 
condition (e.g. a brain tumor) and are not due to the effect of a substance or 
medication on the central nervous system (e.g. corticosteroids), including 
withdrawal (e.g. alcohol  withdrawal).  
 
6A21.0  Schizoaffective disorder, first episode  
Schizoaffective disorder, first episode should be used to identify individuals 
experiencing symptoms that meet the diagnostic requirements for Schizoaffective 
disorder (including duration) but w ho have never before experienced an episode 
during which diagnostic requirements for Schizoaffective disorder or Schizophrenia 
were met.  
 ICD-11 MMS  403 
 6A21.00  Schizoaffective disorder, first episode, currently symptomatic  
All definitional requirements for Schizoaffecti ve disorder, first episode in terms of 
symptoms and duration are currently met, or have been met within the past one 
month.  
 
6A21.01  Schizoaffective disorder, first episode, in partial remission  
All definitional requirements for Schizoaffective disorder, first episode in terms of 
symptoms and duration were previously met. Symptoms have ameliorated such that 
the diagnostic requirements for the disorder have not been met for at least one 
month, but some clinically significant symptoms remain, which may or may not be 
associated with functional impairment. The partial remission may have occurred in 
response to medication or other treatment.  
 
6A21.02  Schizoaffective disorder, first episode, in full remi ssion  
All definitional requirements for Schizoaffective disorder, first episode in terms of 
symptoms and duration were previously met. Symptoms have ameliorated such that 
no significant symptoms remain. The remission may have occurred in response to 
medica tion or other treatment.  
 
6A21.0Z  Schizoaffective disorder, first episode, unspecified  
 
6A21.1  Schizoaffective disorder, multiple episodes  
Schizoaffective disorder, multiple episodes should be used to identify individuals 
experiencing symptoms that meet th e diagnostic requirements for Schizoaffective 
disorder and who have also previously experienced episodes during which 
diagnostic requirements for Schizoaffective disorder or Schizophrenia were met, 
with substantial remission of symptoms between episodes. S ome attenuated 
symptoms may remain during period of remission, and remissions may have 
occurred in response to medication or other treatment.  
 
6A21.10  Schizoaffective disorder, multiple episodes, currently symptomatic  
All definitional requirements for Schizoaffective disorder, multiple episodes in terms 
of symptoms and duration are currently met, or have been met within the past one 
month.  
 
6A21.11  Schiz oaffective disorder, multiple episodes, in partial remission  
All definitional requirements for Schizoaffective disorder, multiple episodes in terms 
of symptoms and duration were previously met. Symptoms have ameliorated such 
that the diagnostic requirement s for the disorder have not been met for at least one 
month, but some clinically significant symptoms remain, which may or may not be 
associated with functional impairment. The partial remission may have occurred in 
response to medication or other treatmen t. 
 
6A21.12  Schizoaffective disorder, multiple episodes, in full remission  
All definitional requirements for Schizoaffective disorder, multiple episodes in terms 
of symptoms and duration were previously met. Symptoms have ameliorated such 
that no significa nt symptoms remain. The remission may have occurred in response 
to medication or other treatment.  
 
6A21.1Z  Schizoaffective disorder, multiple episodes, unspecified  
 404  ICD-11 MMS  
 6A21.2  Schizoaffective disorder, continuous  
Symptoms fulfilling all definitional requiremen ts of Schizoaffective disorder have 
been present for almost all of the illness course over a period of at least one year, 
with periods of subthreshold symptoms being very brief relative to the overall 
course.  
 
6A21.20  Schizoaffective disorder, continuous, currently symptomatic  
All definitional requirements for Schizoaffective disorder, continuous in terms of 
symptoms and duration are currently met, or have been met within the past one 
month.  
 
6A21.21  Schizoaffective disorder, continuous, in partial remissio n 
All definitional requirements for Schizoaffective disorder, continuous in terms of 
symptoms and duration were previously met. Symptoms have ameliorated such that 
the diagnostic requirements for the disorder have not been met for at least one 
month, but s ome clinically significant symptoms remain, which may or may not be 
associated with functional impairment. The partial remission may have occurred in 
response to medication or other treatment.  
 
6A21.22  Schizoaffective disorder, continuous, in full remissio n 
All definitional requirements for Schizoaffective disorder, continuous in terms of 
symptoms and duration were previously met. Symptoms have ameliorated such that 
no significant symptoms remain. The remission may have occurred in response to 
medication or  other treatment.  
 
6A21.2Z  Schizoaffective disorder, continuous, unspecified  
 
6A21.Y  Other specified schizoaffective disorder  
 
6A21.Z  Schizoaffective disorder, unspecified  
 
  6A22   Schizotypal disorder  
Schizotypal disorder is characterised by an enduring pattern (i.e. characteristic of 
the person’s functioning over a period of at least several years) of eccentricities in 
behaviour, appearance and speech, accompanied by cognitive and perceptual 
distortion s, unusual beliefs, and discomfort with — and often reduced capacity for — 
interpersonal relationships. Symptoms may include constricted or inappropriate 
affect and anhedonia. Paranoid ideas, ideas of reference, or other psychotic 
symptoms, including halluci nations in any modality, may occur, but are not of 
sufficient intensity or duration to meet the diagnostic requirements of schizophrenia, 
schizoaffective disorder, or delusional disorder. The symptoms cause distress or 
impairment in personal, family, socia l, educational, occupational or other important 
areas of functioning.  
Inclusions:  Schizotypal personality disorder  
Exclusions:  Autism spectrum disorder (6A02)  
Personality disorder (6D10)  
 ICD-11 MMS  405 
   6A23   Acute and transient psychotic disorder  
Acute and transient psychotic disorder is characterised by acute onset of psychotic 
symptoms that emerge without a prodrome and reach their maximal severity within 
two weeks. Symptoms may include delusions, hallucinat ions, disorganisation of 
thought processes, perplexity or confusion, and disturbances of affect and mood. 
Catatonia -like psychomotor disturbances may be present. Symptoms typically 
change rapidly, both in nature and intensity, from day to day, or even with in a single 
day. The duration of the episode does not exceed 3 months, and most commonly 
lasts from a few days to 1 month. The symptoms are not a manifestation of another 
medical condition (e.g. a brain tumour) and are not due to the effect of a substance 
or medication on the central nervous system (e.g. corticosteroids), including 
withdrawal (e.g. alcohol withdrawal).  
 
6A23.0  Acute and transient psychotic disorder, first episode  
Acute and transient psychotic disorder, first episode should be used to identi fy 
individuals experiencing symptoms that meet the diagnostic requirements for acute 
and transient psychotic disorder but who have never before experienced a similar 
episode.  
 
6A23.00  Acute and transient psychotic disorder, first episode, currently symptom atic 
All definitional requirements for Acute and transient psychotic disorder, first episode 
in terms of symptoms and duration are currently met, or have been met within the 
past one month.  
 
6A23.01  Acute and transient psychotic disorder, first episode, in  partial remission  
All definitional requirements for Acute and transient psychotic disorder, first episode 
in terms of symptoms and duration were previously met. Symptoms have 
ameliorated such that the diagnostic requirements for the disorder have not been  
met for at least one month, but some clinically significant symptoms remain, which 
may or may not be associated with functional impairment. The partial remission may 
have occurred in response to medication or other treatment.  
 
6A23.02  Acute and transient psychotic disorder, first episode, in full remission  
All definitional requirements for Acute and transient psychotic disorder, first episode 
in terms of symptoms and duration were previously met. Symptoms have 
ameliorated such that no significant symptoms remain. The remission may have 
occurred in response to medication or other treatment.  
 
6A23.0Z  Acute and transient psychotic disorder, first episode, unspecified  
 
6A23.1  Acute and transient psychotic disorder, multiple episodes  
Acute and transient psychoti c disorder, multiple episodes should be used to identify 
individuals experiencing symptoms that meet the diagnostic requirements for acute 
and transient psychotic disorder and who have experienced similar episodes in the 
past.  
 
6A23.10  Acute and transient psychotic disorder, multiple episodes, currently symptomatic  
All definitional requirements for Acute and transient psychotic disorder, multiple 
episodes in terms of symptoms and duration are currently met, or have been met 
within the past one month.  
 406  ICD-11 MMS  
 6A23.11  Acute and transient psychotic disorder, multiple episodes,  in partial remission  
All definitional requirements for Acute and transient psychotic disorder, multiple 
episodes in terms of symptoms and duration were previously met. Symptoms have 
ameliorated such that the diagnostic requirements for the disorder have n ot been 
met for at least one month, but some clinically significant symptoms remain, which 
may or may not be associated with functional impairment. The partial remission may 
have occurred in response to medication or other treatment.  
 
6A23.12  Acute and tra nsient psychotic disorder, multiple episodes, in full remission  
All definitional requirements for Acute and transient psychotic disorder, multiple 
episodes in terms of symptoms and duration were previously met. Symptoms have 
ameliorated such that no signif icant symptoms remain. The remission may have 
occurred in response to medication or other treatment.  
 
6A23.1Z  Acute and transient psychotic disorder, multiple episodes, unspecified  
 
6A23.Y  Other specified acute and transient psychotic disorder  
 
6A23.Z  Acut e and transient psychotic disorder, unspecified  
 
  6A24   Delusional disorder  
Delusional disorder is characterised by the development of a delusion or set of 
related delusions, typically persisting for at least 3 months and often much longer, in 
the absenc e of a Depressive, Manic, or Mixed mood episode. The delusions are 
variable in content across individuals, but typically stable within individuals, although 
they may evolve over time. Other characteristic symptoms of Schizophrenia (i.e. 
clear and persisten t hallucinations, negative symptoms, disorganised thinking, or 
experiences of influence, passivity, or control) are not present, although various 
forms of perceptual disturbances (e.g. hallucinations, illusions, misidentifications of 
persons) thematically related to the delusion are still consistent with the diagnosis. 
Apart from actions and attitudes directly related to the delusion or delusional 
system, affect, speech, and behavior are typically unaffected. The symptoms are 
not a manifestation of another medical condition (e.g., a brain tumour) and are not 
due to the effect of a substance or medication on the central nervous system (e.g. 
corticosteroids), including withdrawal effects (e.g. alcohol withdrawal).  
 
6A24.0  Delusional disorder, currently symptom atic 
All definitional requirements for Delusional disorder in terms of symptoms and 
duration are currently met, or have been met within the past one month.  
 
6A24.1  Delusional disorder, in partial remission  
All definitional requirements for Delusional disorder in terms of symptoms and 
duration were previously met. Symptoms have ameliorated such that the diagnostic 
requirements for the disorder have not been met for at least one month, but some 
clinically sign ificant symptoms remain, which may or may not be associated with 
functional impairment. The partial remission may have occurred in response to 
medication or other treatment.  
 ICD-11 MMS  407 
 6A24.2  Delusional disorder, in full remission  
All definitional requirements for D elusional disorder in terms of symptoms and 
duration were previously met. Symptoms have ameliorated such that no significant 
symptoms remain. The remission may have occurred in response to medication or 
other treatment.  
 
6A24.Z  Delusional disorder, unspeci fied 
 
  6A25   Symptomatic manifestations of primary psychotic disorders  
These categories may be used to characterize the current clinical presentation in 
individuals diagnosed with Schizophrenia or another primary psychotic disorder, 
and should not be used in individuals without such a diagnosis. Multiple categories 
may be app lied. Symptoms attributable to the direct pathophysiological 
consequences of a health condition or injury not classified under Mental, 
behavioural or neurodevelopmental disorders (e.g., a brain tumour or traumatic 
brain injury), or to the direct effects of  a substance or medication on the central 
nervous system, including withdrawal effects, should not be considered as 
examples of the respective types of symptoms.  
Coding Note:  These categories should never be used in primary coding. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify the 
presence of these symptoms in primary psychotic disorders.  
 
6A25.0  Positive symptoms in primary psychotic disorders  
Positive symptoms in primary psychotic disorders include pers istent delusions, 
persistent hallucinations (most commonly verbal auditory hallucinations), 
disorganised thinking (formal thought disorder such as loose associations, thought 
derailment, or incoherence), grossly disorganised behaviour (behaviour that 
appea rs bizarre, purposeless and not goal -directed) and experiences of passivity 
and control (the experience that one's feelings, impulses, or thoughts are under the 
control of an external force). The rating should be made based on the severity of 
positive symp toms during the past week.  
Coding Note:  These categories should never be used in primary coding. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify the 
presence of these symptoms in primary psychotic disorder s. 
 
6A25.1  Negative symptoms in primary psychotic disorders  
Negative symptoms in primary psychotic disorders include constricted, blunted, or 
flat affect, alogia or paucity of speech, avolition (general lack of drive, or lack of 
motivation to pursue meanin gful goals), asociality (reduced or absent engagement 
with others and interest in social interaction) and anhedonia (inability to experience 
pleasure from normally pleasurable activities). To be considered negative psychotic 
symptoms, relevant symptoms sho uld not be entirely attributable to antipsychotic 
drug treatment, a depressive disorder, or an under -stimulating environment, and 
should not be a direct consequence of a positive symptom (e.g., persecutory 
delusions causing a person to become socially isol ated due to fear of harm). The 
rating should be made based on the severity of negative symptoms during the past 
week.  
Coding Note:  These categories should never be used in primary coding. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify the 
presence of these symptoms in primary psychotic disorders.  
 408  ICD-11 MMS  
 6A25.2  Depressive mood symptoms in primary psychotic disorders  
Depressive mood symptoms in primary psychotic disorders refer to depressed 
mood as reported by the  individual (feeling down, sad) or manifested as a sign (e.g. 
tearful, defeated appearance). If only non -mood symptoms of a depressive episode 
are present (e.g., anhedonia, psychomotor slowing), this descriptor should not be 
used. This descriptor may be us ed whether or not depressive symptoms meet the 
diagnostic requirements of a separately diagnosed Depressive disorder. The rating 
should be made based on the severity of depressive mood symptoms during the 
past week.  
Coding Note:  These categories should nev er be used in primary coding. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify the 
presence of these symptoms in primary psychotic disorders.  
 
6A25.3  Manic mood symptoms in primary psychotic disorders  
Manic  mood symptoms in primary psychotic disorders refer to elevated, euphoric, 
irritable, or expansive mood states, including rapid changes among different mood 
states (i.e., mood lability). It also includes increased subjective experience of 
energy, which may  be accompanied by increased goal -directed activity. The 
severity of associated non -mood symptoms of a Manic or Hypomanic Episode (e.g., 
decreased need for sleep, distractibility) should not be considered in making a 
rating. Increased non -goal-directed psy chomotor activity should be considered as 
part of the rating of the 'psychomotor symptoms in primary psychotic disorders' 
rather than here. This descriptor may be used whether or not the manic symptoms 
meet the diagnostic requirements of a separately diagn osed bipolar disorder. The 
rating should be made based on the severity of manic mood symptoms during the 
past week.  
Coding Note:  These categories should never be used in primary coding. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes wh en it is desired to identify the 
presence of these symptoms in primary psychotic disorders.  
 
6A25.4  Psychomotor symptoms in primary psychotic disorders  
Psychomotor symptoms in primary psychotic disorders include psychomotor 
agitation or excessive motor act ivity, usually manifested by purposeless behaviours 
such as fidgeting, shifting, fiddling, inability to sit or stand still, wringing of the hands, 
psychomotor retardation, or a visible generalised slowing of movements and 
speech, and catatonic symptoms suc h as excitement, posturing, waxy flexibility, 
negativism, mutism, or stupor. The rating should be made based on the severity of 
psychomotor symptoms during the past week.  
Coding Note:  These categories should never be used in primary coding. The codes are p rovided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify the 
presence of these symptoms in primary psychotic disorders.  
 ICD-11 MMS  409 
 6A25.5  Cognitive symptoms in primary psychotic disorders  
Cognitive symptoms in primary psychotic disorders r efer to cognitive impairment in 
any of the following domains: speed of processing, attention/concentration, 
orientation, judgment, abstraction, verbal or visual learning, and working memory. 
The cognitive impairment is not attributable to a neurodevelopmen tal disorder, a 
delirium or other neurocognitive disorder, or the direct effects of a substance or 
medication on the central nervous system, including withdrawal effects. Ideally, use 
of this category should be based on the results of locally validated, st andardized 
neuropsychological assessments, although such measures may not be available in 
all settings. The rating should be made based on the severity of cognitive symptoms 
during the past week.  
Coding Note:  These categories should never be used in primar y coding. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify the 
presence of these symptoms in primary psychotic disorders.  
Exclusions:  Neurocognitive disorders  (6D70‑6E0Z)  
Neurodevelopmental disorders  (6A00‑6A0Z)  
 
  6A2Y   Other specified primary psychotic disorder  
 
  6A2Z   Schizophrenia or other primary psychotic disorders, unspecified  
 
Catatonia (6A40 ‑6A4Z)  
Catatonia is a syndrome of primarily psychomotor disturbances, characterized by the co -occurrence 
of several symptoms of decreased, increased, or abnormal psychomotor activity. The assessment of 
catatonia is complex and requires observation, interview and physical exam. Catatonia can occur in 
the context of another mental disorder, such as Schizophrenia or Other Primary Psychotic Disorders, 
Mood Disorders, and Neurodevelopmental Disorders, especially Autism Spectrum Disorder. Catatonia 
can also develop duri ng or soon after intoxication or withdrawal from certain psychoactive substances, 
including phencyclidine (PCP), cannabis, hallucinogens such as mescaline or LSD, cocaine and 
MDMA or related drugs, or during the use of certain psychoactive and non -psychoac tive medications 
(e.g. antipsychotic medications, benzodiazepines, steroids, disulfiram, ciprofloxacin). Finally, 
Catatonia can occur as a direct pathophysiological consequence of a medical condition not classified 
under Mental, Behavioural or Neurodevelop mental Disorders. Examples of medical conditions that 
may be associated with Catatonia include diabetic ketoacidosis, hypercalcemia, hepatic 
encephalopathy, homocystinuria, neoplasms head trauma, cerebrovascular disease, and encephalitis.  
Exclusions:  Harmf ul effects of drugs, medicaments or biological substances, not elsewhere 
classified (NE60)  
Coded Elsewhere:  Secondary catatonia syndrome (6E69)  
  6A40   Catatonia associated with another mental disorder  
Catatonia associated with another mental disorder is a syndrome of primarily 
psychomotor disturbances, characterized by the co -occurrence of several 
symptoms of decreased, increased, or abnormal psychomotor activity, which occurs 
in the context of another mental disorder, such as Schizophrenia or Other Prima ry 
Psychotic Disorders, Mood Disorders, and Neurodevelopmental Disorders, 
especially Autism Spectrum Disorder.  
 410  ICD-11 MMS  
   6A41   Catatonia induced by substances or medications  
Catatonia induced by substances or medications is a syndrome of primarily 
psychomotor di sturbances, characterized by the co -occurrence of several 
symptoms of decreased, increased, or abnormal psychomotor activity, which 
develops during or soon after intoxication or withdrawal from certain psychoactive 
substances, including phencyclidine (PCP) , cannabis, hallucinogens such as 
mescaline or LSD, cocaine and MDMA or related drugs, or during the use of certain 
psychoactive and non -psychoactive medications (e.g. antipsychotic medications, 
benzodiazepines, steroids, disulfiram, ciprofloxacin).  
Exclus ions:  Neuroleptic malignant syndrome  (8A00‑8A0Z)  
Serotonin syndrome (8D85)  
 
  6A4Z   Catatonia, unspecified  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 ICD-11 MMS  411 
 Mood disorders (6A60 ‑6A8Z)  
Mood Disorders refers to a superordinate grouping of Bipolar and Depressive  Disorders. Mood 
disorders are defined according to particular types of mood episodes and their pattern over time. The 
primary types of mood episodes are Depressive episode, Manic episode, Mixed episode, and 
Hypomanic episode. Mood episodes are not indepen dently diagnosable entities, and therefore do not 
have their own diagnostic codes. Rather, mood episodes make up the primary components of most of 
the Depressive and Bipolar Disorders.  
Coded Elsewhere:  Substance -induced mood disorders  
Secondary mood syndro me (6E62)  
Bipolar or related disorders (6A60 ‑6A6Z)  
Bipolar and related disorders are episodic mood disorders defined by the occurrence of Manic, Mixed 
or Hypomanic episodes or symptoms. These episodes typically alternate over the course of these 
disorders with Depressive episodes or periods of depressive symptoms.  
  6A60   Bipolar type I disorder  
Bipolar type I disorder is an episodic mood disorder defined by the occurrence of 
one or more manic or mixed episodes. A manic episode is an extreme mood state 
lasting at least one week unless shortened by a treatment intervention 
characterised by euphoria , irritability, or expansiveness, and by increased activity or 
a subjective experience of increased energy, accompanied by other characteristic 
symptoms such as rapid or pressured speech, flight of ideas, increased self -esteem 
or grandiosity, decreased nee d for sleep, distractibility, impulsive or reckless 
behaviour, and rapid changes among different mood states (i.e., mood lability). A 
mixed episode is characterised by the presence of several prominent manic and 
several prominent depressive symptoms consis tent with those observed in manic 
episodes and depressive episodes, which either occur simultaneously or alternate 
very rapidly (from day to day or within the same day). Symptoms must include an 
altered mood state consistent with a manic and/or depressive episode (i.e., 
depressed, dysphoric, euphoric or expansive mood), and be present most of the 
day, nearly every day, during a period of at least 2 weeks, unless shortened by a 
treatment intervention. Although the diagnosis can be made based on evidence of a  
single manic or mixed episode, typically manic or mixed episodes alternate with 
depressive episodes over the course of the disorder.  
Exclusions:  Cyclothymia (6A62)  
Bipolar type II disorder (6A61)  
 412  ICD-11 MMS  
 6A60.0  Bipolar type I disorder, current episode manic, wit hout psychotic symptoms  
Bipolar type I disorder, current episode manic, without psychotic symptoms is 
diagnosed when the definitional requirements for Bipolar type I disorder are met, the 
current episode is manic, and there are no delusions or hallucinatio ns present 
during the episode. A manic episode is an extreme mood state lasting at least one 
week unless shortened by a treatment intervention characterised by euphoria, 
irritability, or expansiveness, and by increased activity or a subjective experience o f 
increased energy, accompanied by other characteristic symptoms such as rapid or 
pressured speech, flight of ideas, increased self -esteem or grandiosity, decreased 
need for sleep, distractibility, impulsive or reckless behaviour, and rapid changes 
among d ifferent mood states (i.e., mood lability). If the individual has experienced 
Manic or Mixed Episodes in the past, a duration of one week is not required in order 
to diagnose a current episode if all other diagnostic requirements are met.  
 
6A60.1  Bipolar t ype I disorder, current episode manic, with psychotic symptoms  
Bipolar type I disorder, current episode manic with psychotic symptoms is 
diagnosed when the definitional requirements for Bipolar type I Disorder have been 
met, the current episode is Manic an d there are delusions or hallucinations present 
during the episode. A manic episode is an extreme mood state lasting at least one 
week unless shortened by a treatment intervention characterised by euphoria, 
irritability, or expansiveness, and by increased activity or a subjective experience of 
increased energy, accompanied by other characteristic symptoms such as rapid or 
pressured speech, flight of ideas, increased self -esteem or grandiosity, decreased 
need for sleep, distractibility, impulsive or reckless  behaviour, and rapid changes 
among different mood states (i.e., mood lability). If the individual has experienced 
Manic or Mixed Episodes in the past, a duration of one week is not required in order 
to diagnose a current episode if all other diagnostic re quirements are met.  
 
6A60.2  Bipolar type I disorder, current episode hypomanic  
Bipolar type I disorder, current episode hypomanic is diagnosed when the 
definitional requirements for Bipolar type I disorder have been met and the current 
episode is hypomanic . A hypomanic episode is a persistent mood state lasting at 
least several days characterised by mild elevation of mood or increased irritability 
and increased activity or a subjective experience of increased energy, accompanied 
by other characteristic symp toms such as rapid speech, rapid or racing thoughts, 
increased self -esteem, an increase in sexual drive or sociability, decreased need for 
sleep, distractibility, or impulsive or reckless behaviour. The symptoms are not 
severe enough to cause marked impair ment in occupational functioning or in usual 
social activities or relationships with others, does not necessitate hospitalization, 
and there are no accompanying delusions or hallucinations.  
 ICD-11 MMS  413 
 6A60.3  Bipolar type I disorder, current episode depressive, mild  
Bipolar type I disorder, current episode depressive, mild is diagnosed when the 
definitional requirements for Bipolar type I disorder have been met and the current 
episode is depressive at a mild level of severity. A depressive episode is 
characterised by a period of depressed mood or diminished interest in activities 
occurring most of the day, nearly every day during a period lasting at least two 
weeks accompanied by other symptoms such as difficulty concentrating, feelings of 
worthlessness or excessive or  inappropriate guilt, hopelessness, recurrent thoughts 
of death or suicide, changes in appetite or sleep, psychomotor agitation or 
retardation, and reduced energy or fatigue. In a mild depressive episode, the 
individual is usually distressed by the symptom s and has some difficulty in 
continuing to function in one or more domains (personal, family, social, educational, 
occupational, or other important domains). There are no delusions or hallucinations 
during the episode.  
 
6A60.4  Bipolar type I disorder, current episode depressive, moderate without 
psychotic symptoms  
Bipolar type I disorder, current episode depressive, moderate, without psychotic 
symptoms is diagnosed when the definitional requirements for Bipolar type I 
disorder h ave been met and the current episode is depressive at a moderate level 
of severity and there are no delusions or hallucinations during the episode. A 
depressive episode is characterised by a period of depressed mood or diminished 
interest in activities occ urring most of the day, nearly every day during a period 
lasting at least two weeks accompanied by other symptoms such as difficulty 
concentrating, feelings of worthlessness or excessive or inappropriate guilt, 
hopelessness, recurrent thoughts of death or suicide, changes in appetite or sleep, 
psychomotor agitation or retardation, and reduced energy or fatigue. In a moderate 
depressive episode, several symptoms of a depressive episode are present to a 
marked degree, or a large number of depressive symptoms of lesser severity are 
present overall. The individual typically has considerable difficulty functioning in 
multiple domains (personal, family, social, educational, occupational, or other 
important domains).  
 
6A60.5  Bipolar type I disorder, current episode  depressive, moderate with psychotic 
symptoms  
Bipolar type I disorder, current episode depressive, moderate, with psychotic 
symptoms diagnosed when the definitional requirements for Bipolar type I disorder 
have been met and the current episode is depressiv e at a moderate level of severity 
and there are delusions or hallucinations during the episode. A depressive episode 
is characterised by a period of depressed mood or diminished interest in activities 
occurring most of the day, nearly every day during a pe riod lasting at least two 
weeks accompanied by other symptoms such as difficulty concentrating, feelings of 
worthlessness or excessive or inappropriate guilt, hopelessness, recurrent thoughts 
of death or suicide, changes in appetite or sleep, psychomotor a gitation or 
retardation, and reduced energy or fatigue. In a moderate depressive episode, 
several symptoms of a depressive episode are present to a marked degree, or a 
large number of depressive symptoms of lesser severity are present overall. The 
individu al typically has considerable difficulty functioning in multiple domains 
(personal, family, social, educational, occupational, or other important domains).  
 414  ICD-11 MMS  
 6A60.6  Bipolar type I disorder, current episode depressive, severe without psychotic 
symptoms  
Bipol ar type I disorder, current episode depressive, severe, without psychotic 
symptoms is diagnosed when the definitional requirements for Bipolar type I 
disorder are met and the current episode is severe and there are no delusions or 
hallucinations during the  episode. A depressive episode is characterised by a period 
of depressed mood or diminished interest in activities occurring most of the day, 
nearly every day during a period lasting at least two weeks accompanied by other 
symptoms such as difficulty conce ntrating, feelings of worthlessness or excessive or 
inappropriate guilt, hopelessness, recurrent thoughts of death or suicide, changes in 
appetite or sleep, psychomotor agitation or retardation, and reduced energy or 
fatigue. In a severe depressive episode , many or most symptoms of a Depressive 
Episode are present to a marked degree, or a smaller number of symptoms are 
present and manifest to an intense degree. The individual has serious difficulty 
continuing to function in most domains (personal, family, s ocial, educational, 
occupational, or other important domains).  
 
6A60.7  Bipolar type I disorder, current episode depressive, severe with psychotic 
symptoms  
Bipolar type I disorder, current episode depressive, severe, with psychotic 
symptoms is diagnosed whe n the definitional requirements for Bipolar type I 
disorder are met and the current episode is severe and there are delusions or 
hallucinations during the episode. A depressive episode is characterised by a period 
of depressed mood or diminished interest i n activities occurring most of the day, 
nearly every day during a period lasting at least two weeks accompanied by other 
symptoms such as difficulty concentrating, feelings of worthlessness or excessive or 
inappropriate guilt, hopelessness, recurrent thoug hts of death or suicide, changes in 
appetite or sleep, psychomotor agitation or retardation, and reduced energy or 
fatigue. In a severe depressive episode, many or most symptoms of a Depressive 
Episode are present to a marked degree, or a smaller number of  symptoms are 
present and manifest to an intense degree. The individual has serious difficulty 
continuing to function in most domains (personal, family, social, educational, 
occupational, or other important domains).  
 
6A60.8  Bipolar type I disorder, current episode depressive, unspecified severity  
Bipolar type I disorder, current episode depressive, unspecified severity is 
diagnosed when the definitional requirements for Bipolar type I disorder have been 
met and the current ep isode is depressive, but there is insufficient information to 
determine the severity of the current depressive episode. A depressive episode is 
characterised by a period of depressed mood or diminished interest in activities 
occurring most of the day, near ly every day during a period lasting at least two 
weeks accompanied by other symptoms such as difficulty concentrating, feelings of 
worthlessness or excessive or inappropriate guilt, hopelessness, recurrent thoughts 
of death or suicide, changes in appetite  or sleep, psychomotor agitation or 
retardation, and reduced energy or fatigue. The symptoms are associated with at 
least some difficulty in continuing with ordinary work, social, or domestic activities.  
 ICD-11 MMS  415 
 6A60.9  Bipolar type I disorder, current episode mix ed, without psychotic symptoms  
Bipolar type I disorder, current episode mixed, without psychotic symptoms is 
diagnosed when the definitional requirements for Bipolar type I disorder are met and 
the current episode is mixed and there are no delusions or hal lucinations present 
during the episode. A mixed episode is characterised by the presence of several 
prominent manic and several prominent depressive symptoms consistent with those 
observed in manic episodes and depressive episodes, which either occur 
simul taneously or alternate very rapidly (from day to day or within the same day). 
Symptoms must include an altered mood state consistent with a manic and/or 
depressive episode (i.e., depressed, dysphoric, euphoric or expansive mood), and 
be present most of the  day, nearly every day, during a period of at least 2 weeks, 
unless shortened by a treatment intervention. If the individual has experienced 
Manic or Mixed Episodes in the past, a duration of 2 weeks is not required in order 
to diagnose a current episode i f all other diagnostic requirements are met.  
 
6A60.A  Bipolar type I disorder, current episode mixed, with psychotic symptoms  
Bipolar type I disorder, current episode mixed, with psychotic symptoms is 
diagnosed when the definitional requirements for Bipolar  type I disorder are met and 
the current episode is mixed and there are delusions or hallucinations present 
during the episode. A mixed episode is characterised by the presence of several 
prominent manic and several prominent depressive symptoms consistent  with those 
observed in manic episodes and depressive episodes, which either occur 
simultaneously or alternate very rapidly (from day to day or within the same day). 
Symptoms must include an altered mood state consistent with a manic and/or 
depressive epis ode (i.e., depressed, dysphoric, euphoric or expansive mood), and 
be present most of the day, nearly every day, during a period of at least 2 weeks, 
unless shortened by a treatment intervention. If the individual has experienced 
Manic or Mixed Episodes in the past, a duration of 2 weeks is not required in order 
to diagnose a current episode if all other diagnostic requirements are met.  
 
6A60.B  Bipolar type I disorder, currently in partial remission, most recent episode 
manic or hypomanic  
Bipolar type I diso rder, currently in partial remission, most recent episode manic or 
hypomanic is diagnosed when the definitional requirements for Bipolar type I 
disorder have been met and the most recent episode was a manic or hypomanic 
episode. The full definitional requi rements for a manic or hypomanic episode are no 
longer met but some significant mood symptoms remain. In some cases, residual 
mood symptoms may be depressive rather than manic or hypomanic, but do not 
satisfy the definitional requirements for a depressive episode.  
 
6A60.C  Bipolar type I disorder, currently in partial remission, most recent episode 
depressive  
Bipolar type I disorder, currently in partial remission, most recent episode 
depressive is diagnosed when the definitional requirements for Bipolar typ e I 
disorder have been met and the most recent episode was a depressive episode. 
The full definitional requirements for the episode are no longer met but some 
significant depressive symptoms remain.  
 416  ICD-11 MMS  
 6A60.D  Bipolar type I disorder, currently in partial rem ission, most recent episode 
mixed  
Bipolar type I disorder, currently in partial remission, most recent episode mixed is 
diagnosed when the definitional requirements for Bipolar type I disorder have been 
met and the most recent episode was a mixed episode. The full definitional 
requirements for the episode are no longer met but some significant mood 
symptoms remain.  
 
6A60.E  Bipolar type I disorder, currently in partial remission, most recent episode 
unspecified  
Bipolar type I disorder, currently in partial r emission, most recent episode 
unspecified is diagnosed when the definitional requirements for Bipolar type I 
disorder have been met but there is insufficient information to determine the nature 
of the most recent mood episode. The full definitional require ments for a mood 
episode are no longer met but some significant mood symptoms remain.  
 
6A60.F  Bipolar type I disorder, currently in full remission  
Bipolar type I disorder, currently in full remission is diagnosed when the full 
definitional requirements for  Bipolar I disorder have been met in the past but there 
are no longer any significant mood symptoms.  
 
6A60.Y  Other specified bipolar type I disorder  
 
6A60.Z  Bipolar type I disorder, unspecified  
 
  6A61   Bipolar type II disorder  
Bipolar type II disorder is an episodic mood disorder defined by the occurrence of 
one or more hypomanic episodes and at least one depressive episode. A 
hypomanic episode is a persistent mood state lasting for at least several days 
characterised by persist ent elevation of mood or increased irritability as well as 
increased activity or a subjective experience of increased energy, accompanied by 
other characteristic symptoms such as increased talkativeness, rapid or racing 
thoughts, increased self -esteem, dec reased need for sleep, distractability, and 
impulsive or reckless behavior. The symptoms represent a change from the 
individual’s typical mood, energy level, and behavior but are not severe enough to 
cause marked impairment in functioning. A depressive epi sode is characterised by 
a period of depressed mood or diminished interest in activities occurring most of the 
day, nearly every day during a period lasting at least two weeks accompanied by 
other symptoms such as changes in appetite or sleep, psychomotor agitation or 
retardation, fatigue, feelings of worthless or excessive or inappropriate guilt, feelings 
or hopelessness, difficulty concentrating, and suicidality. There is no history of 
manic or mixed episodes.  
 ICD-11 MMS  417 
 6A61.0  Bipolar type II disorder, current epi sode hypomanic  
Bipolar type II disorder, current episode hypomanic is diagnosed when the 
definitional requirements for Bipolar type II disorder have been met and the current 
episode is hypomanic. A hypomanic episode is a persistent mood state lasting at 
least several days characterised by mild elevation of mood or increased irritability 
and increased activity or a subjective experience of increased energy, accompanied 
by other characteristic symptoms such as rapid speech, rapid or racing thoughts, 
increased  self-esteem, an increase in sexual drive or sociability, decreased need for 
sleep, distractibility, or impulsive or reckless behaviour. The symptoms are not 
severe enough to cause marked impairment in occupational functioning or in usual 
social activities  or relationships with others, does not necessitate hospitalization, 
and there are no accompanying delusions or hallucinations.  
 
6A61.1  Bipolar type II disorder, current episode depressive, mild  
Bipolar type II disorder, current episode depressive, mild is diagnosed when the 
definitional requirements for Bipolar type II disorder have been met and the current 
episode is depressive at a mild level of severity. A depressive episode is 
characterised b y a period of depressed mood or diminished interest in activities 
occurring most of the day, nearly every day during a period lasting at least two 
weeks accompanied by other symptoms such as difficulty concentrating, feelings of 
worthlessness or excessive or inappropriate guilt, hopelessness, recurrent thoughts 
of death or suicide, changes in appetite or sleep, psychomotor agitation or 
retardation, and reduced energy or fatigue. In a mild depressive episode, the 
individual is usually distressed by the sympt oms and has some difficulty in 
continuing to function in one or more domains (personal, family, social, educational, 
occupational, or other important domains). There are no delusions or hallucinations 
during the episode.  
 
6A61.2  Bipolar type II disorder, c urrent episode depressive, moderate without 
psychotic symptoms  
Bipolar type II disorder, current episode depressive, moderate, without psychotic 
symptoms is diagnosed when the definitional requirements for Bipolar type II 
disorder have been met and the cur rent episode is depressive at a moderate level 
of severity and there are no delusions or hallucinations during the episode. A 
depressive episode is characterised by a period of depressed mood or diminished 
interest in activities occurring most of the day, nearly every day during a period 
lasting at least two weeks accompanied by other symptoms such as difficulty 
concentrating, feelings of worthlessness or excessive or inappropriate guilt, 
hopelessness, recurrent thoughts of death or suicide, changes in appe tite or sleep, 
psychomotor agitation or retardation, and reduced energy or fatigue. In a moderate 
depressive episode, several symptoms of a depressive episode are present to a 
marked degree, or a large number of depressive symptoms of lesser severity are 
present overall. The individual typically has considerable difficulty functioning in 
multiple domains (personal, family, social, educational, occupational, or other 
important domains).  
 418  ICD-11 MMS  
 6A61.3  Bipolar type II disorder, current episode depressive, moderate w ith psychotic 
symptoms  
Bipolar type II disorder, current episode depressive, moderate, with psychotic 
symptoms diagnosed when the definitional requirements for Bipolar type II disorder 
have been met and the current episode is depressive at a moderate level  of severity 
and there are delusions or hallucinations during the episode. A depressive episode 
is characterised by a period of depressed mood or diminished interest in activities 
occurring most of the day, nearly every day during a period lasting at least  two 
weeks accompanied by other symptoms such as difficulty concentrating, feelings of 
worthlessness or excessive or inappropriate guilt, hopelessness, recurrent thoughts 
of death or suicide, changes in appetite or sleep, psychomotor agitation or 
retardati on, and reduced energy or fatigue. In a moderate depressive episode, 
several symptoms of a depressive episode are present to a marked degree, or a 
large number of depressive symptoms of lesser severity are present overall. The 
individual typically has cons iderable difficulty functioning in multiple domains 
(personal, family, social, educational, occupational, or other important domains).  
 
6A61.4  Bipolar type II disorder, current episode depressive, severe without psychotic 
symptoms  
Bipolar type II disorder,  current episode depressive, severe, without psychotic 
symptoms is diagnosed when the definitional requirements for Bipolar type II 
disorder are met and the current episode is severe and there are no delusions or 
hallucinations during the episode. A depres sive episode is characterised by a period 
of depressed mood or diminished interest in activities occurring most of the day, 
nearly every day during a period lasting at least two weeks accompanied by other 
symptoms such as difficulty concentrating, feelings  of worthlessness or excessive or 
inappropriate guilt, hopelessness, recurrent thoughts of death or suicide, changes in 
appetite or sleep, psychomotor agitation or retardation, and reduced energy or 
fatigue. In a severe depressive episode, many or most sym ptoms of a Depressive 
Episode are present to a marked degree, or a smaller number of symptoms are 
present and manifest to an intense degree. The individual has serious difficulty 
continuing to function in most domains (personal, family, social, educational , 
occupational, or other important domains).  
 
6A61.5  Bipolar type II disorder, current episode depressive, severe with psychotic 
symptoms  
Bipolar type II disorder, current episode depressive, severe, with psychotic 
symptoms is diagnosed when the definition al requirements for Bipolar type II 
disorder are met and the current episode is severe and there are delusions or 
hallucinations during the episode. A depressive episode is characterised by a period 
of depressed mood or diminished interest in activities oc curring most of the day, 
nearly every day during a period lasting at least two weeks accompanied by other 
symptoms such as difficulty concentrating, feelings of worthlessness or excessive or 
inappropriate guilt, hopelessness, recurrent thoughts of death or  suicide, changes in 
appetite or sleep, psychomotor agitation or retardation, and reduced energy or 
fatigue. In a severe depressive episode, many or most symptoms of a Depressive 
Episode are present to a marked degree, or a smaller number of symptoms are 
present and manifest to an intense degree. The individual has serious difficulty 
continuing to function in most domains (personal, family, social, educational, 
occupational, or other important domains).  
 ICD-11 MMS  419 
 6A61.6  Bipolar type II disorder, current episode depr essive, unspecified severity  
Bipolar type II disorder, current episode depressive, unspecified severity is 
diagnosed when the definitional requirements for Bipolar type II disorder have been 
met and the current episode is depressive, but there is insuffici ent information to 
determine the severity of the current depressive episode. A depressive episode is 
characterised by a period of depressed mood or diminished interest in activities 
occurring most of the day, nearly every day during a period lasting at lea st two 
weeks accompanied by other symptoms such as difficulty concentrating, feelings of 
worthlessness or excessive or inappropriate guilt, hopelessness, recurrent thoughts 
of death or suicide, changes in appetite or sleep, psychomotor agitation or 
retarda tion, and reduced energy or fatigue. The symptoms are associated with at 
least some difficulty in continuing with ordinary work, social, or domestic activities.  
 
6A61.7  Bipolar type II disorder, currently in partial remission, most recent episode 
hypomanic  
Bipolar type II disorder, currently in partial remission, most recent episode 
hypomanic is diagnosed when the definitional requirements for Bipolar type II 
disorder have been met and the most recent episode was a hypomanic episode. 
The full definitional r equirements for a hypomanic episode are no longer met but 
some significant mood symptoms remain. In some cases, residual mood symptoms 
may be depressive rather than hypomanic, but do not satisfy the definitional 
requirements for a depressive episode.  
 
6A61 .8 Bipolar type II disorder, currently in partial remission, most recent episode 
depressive  
Bipolar type II disorder, currently in partial remission, most recent episode 
depressive is diagnosed when the definitional requirements for Bipolar type II 
disorder have been met and the most recent episode was a depressive episode. 
The full definitional requirements for the episode are no longer met but some 
significant depressive symptoms remain.  
 
6A61.9  Bipolar type II disorder, currently in partial remission, most recent episode 
unspecified  
Bipolar type II disorder, currently in partial remission, most  recent episode 
unspecified is diagnosed when the definitional requirements for Bipolar type II 
disorder have been met but there is insufficient information to determine the nature 
of the most recent mood episode. The full definitional requirements for a m ood 
episode are no longer met but some significant mood symptoms remain.  
 
6A61.A  Bipolar type II disorder, currently in full remission  
Bipolar type II disorder, currently in full remission, is diagnosed when the definitional 
requirements for Bipolar type I I disorder have been met but there are no longer any 
significant mood symptoms.  
 
6A61.Y  Other specified bipolar type II disorder  
 
6A61.Z  Bipolar type II disorder, unspecified  
 420  ICD-11 MMS  
   6A62   Cyclothymic disorder  
Cyclothymic disorder is characterised by a persist ent instability of mood over a 
period of at least 2 years, involving numerous periods of hypomanic (e.g., euphoria, 
irritability, or expansiveness, psychomotor activation) and depressive (e.g., feeling 
down, diminished interest in activities, fatigue) symp toms that are present during 
more of the time than not. The hypomanic symptomatology may or may not be 
sufficiently severe or prolonged to meet the full definitional requirements of a 
hypomanic episode (see Bipolar type II disorder), but there is no histor y of manic or 
mixed episodes (see Bipolar type I disorder). The depressive symptomatology has 
never been sufficiently severe or prolonged to meet the diagnostic requirements for 
a depressive episode (see Bipolar type II disorder). The symptoms result in 
significant distress or significant impairment in personal, family, social, educational, 
occupational or other important areas of functioning.  
Inclusions:  Cycloid personality  
Cyclothymic personality  
 
  6A6Y   Other specified bipolar or related disorders  
 
  6A6Z   Bipolar or related disorders, unspecified  
 
Depressive disorders (6A70 ‑6A7Z)  
Depressive disorders are characterised by depressive mood (e.g., sad, irritable, empty) or loss of 
pleasure accompanied by other cognitive, behavioural, or neurovegetative sy mptoms that significantly 
affect the individual’s ability to function. A depressive disorder should not be diagnosed in individuals 
who have ever experienced a manic, mixed or hypomanic episode, which would indicate the presence 
of a bipolar disorder.  
Code d Elsewhere:  Premenstrual dysphoric disorder (GA34.41)  
  6A70   Single episode depressive disorder  
Single episode depressive disorder is characterised by the presence or history of 
one depressive episode when there is no history of prior depressive episodes. A 
depressive episode is characterised by a period of depressed mood or diminished 
interest in ac tivities occurring most of the day, nearly every day during a period 
lasting at least two weeks accompanied by other symptoms such as difficulty 
concentrating, feelings of worthlessness or excessive or inappropriate guilt, 
hopelessness, recurrent thoughts of death or suicide, changes in appetite or sleep, 
psychomotor agitation or retardation, and reduced energy or fatigue. There have 
never been any prior manic, hypomanic, or mixed episodes, which would indicate 
the presence of a bipolar disorder.  
Exclusions : recurrent depressive disorder (6A71)  
Adjustment disorder (6B43)  
Bipolar or related disorders  (6A60‑6A6Z)  
 ICD-11 MMS  421 
 6A70.0  Single episode depressive disorder, mild  
Single episode depressive disorder, mild, is diagnosed when the definitional 
requirements of a Depressive episode are met and the episode is of mild severity. A 
depressive episode is characterised by a period of depressed mood or diminished 
interest in act ivities occurring most of the day, nearly every day during a period 
lasting at least two weeks accompanied by other symptoms such as difficulty 
concentrating, feelings of worthlessness or excessive or inappropriate guilt, 
hopelessness, recurrent thoughts o f death or suicide, changes in appetite or sleep, 
psychomotor agitation or retardation, and reduced energy or fatigue. In a mild 
depressive episode, the individual is usually distressed by the symptoms and has 
some difficulty in continuing to function in o ne or more domains (personal, family, 
social, educational, occupational, or other important domains). There are no 
delusions or hallucinations during the episode.  
 
6A70.1  Single episode depressive disorder, moderate, without psychotic symptoms  
Single episo de depressive disorder, moderate, without psychotic symptoms is 
diagnosed when the definitional requirements of a depressive episode have been 
met, there is no history of prior depressive episodes, the episode is of moderate 
severity, and there are no delu sions or hallucinations during the episode. A 
depressive episode is characterised by a period of depressed mood or diminished 
interest in activities occurring most of the day, nearly every day during a period 
lasting at least two weeks accompanied by other  symptoms such as difficulty 
concentrating, feelings of worthlessness or excessive or inappropriate guilt, 
hopelessness, recurrent thoughts of death or suicide, changes in appetite or sleep, 
psychomotor agitation or retardation, and reduced energy or fatig ue. In a moderate 
depressive episode, several symptoms of a depressive episode are present to a 
marked degree, or a large number of depressive symptoms of lesser severity are 
present overall. The individual typically has considerable difficulty functioning  in 
multiple domains (personal, family, social, educational, occupational, or other 
important domains).  
 
6A70.2  Single episode depressive disorder, moderate, with psychotic symptoms  
Single episode depressive disorder, moderate, with psychotic symptoms is 
diagnosed when the definitional requirements of a depressive episode have been 
met, there is no history of prior depressive episodes, the episode is of moderate 
severity, and there are delusions or hallucinations during the episode. A depressive 
episode is characterised by a period of depressed mood or diminished interest in 
activities occurring most of the day, nearly every day during a period lasting at least 
two weeks accompanied by other symptoms such as difficulty concentrating, 
feelings of worthlessnes s or excessive or inappropriate guilt, hopelessness, 
recurrent thoughts of death or suicide, changes in appetite or sleep, psychomotor 
agitation or retardation, and reduced energy or fatigue. In a moderate depressive 
episode, several symptoms of a depressi ve episode are present to a marked 
degree, or a large number of depressive symptoms of lesser severity are present 
overall. The individual typically has considerable difficulty functioning in multiple 
domains (personal, family, social, educational, occupat ional, or other important 
domains).  
 422  ICD-11 MMS  
 6A70.3  Single episode depressive disorder, severe, without psychotic symptoms  
Single episode depressive disorder, severe, without psychotic symptoms is 
diagnosed when the definitional requirements for Single episode dep ressive 
disorder are met and the current episode is severe and there are no delusions or 
hallucinations during the episode. A depressive episode is characterised by a period 
of depressed mood or diminished interest in activities occurring most of the day, 
nearly every day during a period lasting at least two weeks accompanied by other 
symptoms such as difficulty concentrating, feelings of worthlessness or excessive or 
inappropriate guilt, hopelessness, recurrent thoughts of death or suicide, changes in 
appe tite or sleep, psychomotor agitation or retardation, and reduced energy or 
fatigue. In a severe depressive episode, many or most symptoms of a Depressive 
Episode are present to a marked degree, or a smaller number of symptoms are 
present and manifest to an  intense degree. The individual has serious difficulty 
continuing to function in most domains (personal, family, social, educational, 
occupational, or other important domains).  
Inclusions:  Major depression single episode without psychotic symptoms  
Vital de pression single episode without psychotic symptoms  
 
6A70.4  Single episode depressive disorder, severe, with psychotic symptoms  
Single episode depressive disorder, severe, with psychotic symptoms is diagnosed 
when the definitional requirements for Single ep isode depressive disorder are met 
and the current episode is severe and there are delusions or hallucinations during 
the episode. A depressive episode is characterised by a period of depressed mood 
or diminished interest in activities occurring most of the  day, nearly every day during 
a period lasting at least two weeks accompanied by other symptoms such as 
difficulty concentrating, feelings of worthlessness or excessive or inappropriate guilt, 
hopelessness, recurrent thoughts of death or suicide, changes i n appetite or sleep, 
psychomotor agitation or retardation, and reduced energy or fatigue. In a severe 
depressive episode, many or most symptoms of a Depressive Episode are present 
to a marked degree, or a smaller number of symptoms are present and manifest  to 
an intense degree. The individual has serious difficulty continuing to function in 
most domains (personal, family, social, educational, occupational, or other 
important domains). In a severe depressive episode, many or most symptoms of a 
Depressive Epi sode are present to a marked degree, or a smaller number of 
symptoms are present and manifest to an intense degree. The individual has 
serious difficulty continuing to function in most domains (personal, family, social, 
educational, occupational, or other important domains).  
 
6A70.5  Single episode depressive disorder, unspecified severity  
Single episode depressive disorder, unspecified severity is diagnosed when the 
definitional requirements of a depressive episode have been met, there is no history 
of prio r depressive episodes, and there is insufficient information to determine the 
severity of the current depressive episode. A depressive episode is characterised 
by a period of depressed mood or diminished interest in activities occurring most of 
the day, ne arly every day during a period lasting at least two weeks accompanied 
by other symptoms such as difficulty concentrating, feelings of worthlessness or 
excessive or inappropriate guilt, hopelessness, recurrent thoughts of death or 
suicide, changes in appeti te or sleep, psychomotor agitation or retardation, and 
reduced energy or fatigue. The symptoms are associated with at least some 
difficulty in continuing with ordinary work, social, or domestic activities.  
 ICD-11 MMS  423 
 6A70.6  Single episode depressive disorder, curren tly in partial remission  
Single episode depressive disorder, currently in partial remission, is diagnosed 
when the full definitional requirements for a depressive episode have been met and 
there is no history of prior depressive episodes. The full definiti onal requirements for 
a depressive episode are no longer met but some significant mood symptoms 
remain.  
 
6A70.7  Single episode depressive disorder, currently in full remission  
Single episode depressive disorder, currently in full remission is diagnosed whe n 
the full definitional requirements for one depressive episode have been met in the 
past and there are no longer any significant mood symptoms. There is no history of 
depressive episodes preceding the episode under consideration.  
 
6A70.Y  Other specified single episode depressive disorder  
 
6A70.Z  Single episode depressive disorder, unspecified  
 
  6A71   Recurrent depressive disorder  
Recurrent depressive disorder is characterised by a history of at least two 
depressive episodes separated by at least several months without significant mood 
disturbance. A depressive episode is characterised by a period of depressed mood 
or diminished interest in activities occurring most of the day, nearly every day during 
a period lasting at least two weeks ac companied by other symptoms such as 
difficulty concentrating, feelings of worthlessness or excessive or inappropriate guilt, 
hopelessness, recurrent thoughts of death or suicide, changes in appetite or sleep, 
psychomotor agitation or retardation, and reduc ed energy or fatigue. There have 
never been any prior manic, hypomanic, or mixed episodes, which would indicate 
the presence of a Bipolar disorder.  
Inclusions:  seasonal depressive disorder  
Exclusions:  Adjustment disorder (6B43)  
Bipolar or related disorders  (6A60‑6A6Z)  
Single episode depressive disorder (6A70)  
 
6A71.0  Recurrent depressive disorder, current episode mild  
Recurrent depressive disorder, current episode mild is diagnosed when the 
definitional requirements for Recurrent  depressive disorder have been met and 
there is currently a depressive episode of mild severity. A depressive episode is 
characterised by a period of depressed mood or diminished interest in activities 
occurring most of the day, nearly every day during a p eriod lasting at least two 
weeks accompanied by other symptoms such as difficulty concentrating, feelings of 
worthlessness or excessive or inappropriate guilt, hopelessness, recurrent thoughts 
of death or suicide, changes in appetite or sleep, psychomotor agitation or 
retardation, and reduced energy or fatigue. In a mild depressive episode, the 
individual is usually distressed by the symptoms and has some difficulty in 
continuing to function in one or more domains (personal, family, social, educational, 
occupational, or other important domains). There are no delusions or hallucinations 
during the episode.  
 424  ICD-11 MMS  
 6A71.1  Recurrent depressive disorder, current episode moderate, without psychotic 
symptoms  
Recurrent depressive disorder, current episode moderate, withou t psychotic 
symptoms is diagnosed when the definitional requirements for recurrent depressive 
disorder have been met and there is currently a depressive episode of moderate 
severity, and there are no delusions or hallucinations during the episode. A 
depres sive episode is characterised by a period of depressed mood or diminished 
interest in activities occurring most of the day, nearly every day during a period 
lasting at least two weeks accompanied by other symptoms such as difficulty 
concentrating, feelings  of worthlessness or excessive or inappropriate guilt, 
hopelessness, recurrent thoughts of death or suicide, changes in appetite or sleep, 
psychomotor agitation or retardation, and reduced energy or fatigue. In a moderate 
depressive episode, several sympto ms of a depressive episode are present to a 
marked degree, or a large number of depressive symptoms of lesser severity are 
present overall. The individual typically has considerable difficulty functioning in 
multiple domains (personal, family, social, educ ational, occupational, or other 
important domains).  
 
6A71.2  Recurrent depressive disorder, current episode moderate, with psychotic 
symptoms  
Recurrent depressive disorder, current episode moderate, with psychotic symptoms 
is diagnosed when the definitional  requirements for Recurrent depressive disorder 
have been met and there is currently a depressive episode of moderate severity, 
and there are delusions or hallucinations during the episode. A depressive episode 
is characterised by a period of depressed moo d or diminished interest in activities 
occurring most of the day, nearly every day during a period lasting at least two 
weeks accompanied by other symptoms such as difficulty concentrating, feelings of 
worthlessness or excessive or inappropriate guilt, hop elessness, recurrent thoughts 
of death or suicide, changes in appetite or sleep, psychomotor agitation or 
retardation, and reduced energy or fatigue. In a moderate depressive episode, 
several symptoms of a depressive episode are present to a marked degree,  or a 
large number of depressive symptoms of lesser severity are present overall. The 
individual typically has considerable difficulty functioning in multiple domains 
(personal, family, social, educational, occupational, or other important domains).  
 ICD-11 MMS  425 
 6A71. 3 Recurrent depressive disorder, current episode severe, without psychotic 
symptoms  
Recurrent depressive disorder, current episode severe, without psychotic symptoms 
is diagnosed when the definitional requirements for Recurrent depressive disorder 
are met and the current episode is severe and there are no delusions or 
hallucinations during the episode. A depressive episode is characterised by a period 
of depressed mood or diminished interest in activities occurring most of the day, 
nearly every day during a  period lasting at least two weeks accompanied by other 
symptoms such as difficulty concentrating, feelings of worthlessness or excessive or 
inappropriate guilt, hopelessness, recurrent thoughts of death or suicide, changes in 
appetite or sleep, psychomoto r agitation or retardation, and reduced energy or 
fatigue. In a severe depressive episode, many or most symptoms of a Depressive 
Episode are present to a marked degree, or a smaller number of symptoms are 
present and manifest to an intense degree. The indi vidual has serious difficulty 
continuing to function in most domains (personal, family, social, educational, 
occupational, or other important domains).  
Inclusions:  Endogenous depression without psychotic symptoms  
Major depression, recurrent without psychot ic symptoms  
Manic -depressive psychosis, depressed type without psychotic 
symptoms  
Vital depression, recurrent without psychotic symptoms  
 
6A71.4  Recurrent depressive disorder, current episode severe, with psychotic 
symptoms  
Recurrent depressive disorder, current episode severe, with psychotic symptoms is 
diagnosed when the definitional requirements for Recurrent depressive disorder are 
met and the current episode is severe and there are delusions or hallucinations 
during the episode. A depressive episode is characterised by a period of depressed 
mood or diminished interest in activities occurring most of the day, nearly every day 
during a period las ting at least two weeks accompanied by other symptoms such as 
difficulty concentrating, feelings of worthlessness or excessive or inappropriate guilt, 
hopelessness, recurrent thoughts of death or suicide, changes in appetite or sleep, 
psychomotor agitation  or retardation, and reduced energy or fatigue. In a severe 
depressive episode, many or most symptoms of a Depressive Episode are present 
to a marked degree, or a smaller number of symptoms are present and manifest to 
an intense degree. The individual has serious difficulty continuing to function in 
most domains (personal, family, social, educational, occupational, or other 
important domains). In a severe depressive episode, many or most symptoms of a 
Depressive Episode are present to a marked degree, or a smaller number of 
symptoms are present and manifest to an intense degree. The individual has 
serious difficulty continuing to function in most domains (personal, family, social, 
educational, occupational, or other important domains).  
Inclusions:  Endogenous  depression with psychotic symptoms  
Manic -depressive psychosis, depressed type with psychotic 
symptoms  
 426  ICD-11 MMS  
 6A71.5  Recurrent depressive disorder, current episode, unspecified severity  
Recurrent depressive disorder current episode, unspecified severity is diagn osed 
when the definitional requirements of a depressive episode have been met and 
there is a history of prior depressive episodes, but there is insufficient information to 
determine the severity of the current depressive episode. A depressive episode is 
characterised by a period of almost daily depressed mood or diminished interest in 
activities lasting at least two weeks accompanied by other symptoms such as 
difficulty concentrating, feelings of worthlessness or excessive or inappropriate guilt, 
hopelessne ss, recurrent thoughts of death or suicide, changes in appetite or sleep, 
psychomotor agitation or retardation, and reduced energy or fatigue. The symptoms 
are associated with at least some difficulty in continuing with ordinary work, social, 
or domestic a ctivities.  
 
6A71.6  Recurrent depressive disorder, currently in partial remission  
Recurrent depressive disorder, currently in partial remission, is diagnosed when the 
definitional requirements for Recurrent depressive disorder have been met; the full 
defini tional requirements for a depressive episode are no longer met but some 
significant mood symptoms remain.  
 
6A71.7  Recurrent depressive disorder, currently in full remission  
Recurrent depressive disorder, currently in full remission is diagnosed when the 
definitional requirements for recurrent depressive disorder have been met but 
currently there are no significant mood symptoms.  
 
6A71.Y  Other specified recurrent depressive disorder  
 
6A71.Z  Recurrent depressive disorder, unspecified  
 
  6A72   Dysthymic disor der 
Dysthymic disorder is characterised by a persistent depressive mood (i.e., lasting 2 
years or more), for most of the day, for more days than not. In children and 
adolescents depressed mood can manifest as pervasive irritability. The depressed 
mood is a ccompanied by additional symptoms such as markedly diminished interest 
or pleasure in activities, reduced concentration and attention or indecisiveness, low 
self-worth or excessive or inappropriate guilt, hopelessness about the future, 
disturbed sleep or i ncreased sleep, diminished or increased appetite, or low energy 
or fatigue. During the first 2 years of the disorder, there has never been a 2 -week 
period during which the number and duration of symptoms were sufficient to meet 
the diagnostic requirements for a Depressive Episode. There is no history of Manic, 
Mixed, or Hypomanic Episodes.  
Inclusions:  Dysthymia  
Exclusions:  anxiety depression (mild or not persistent) (6A73)  
 ICD-11 MMS  427 
   6A73   Mixed depressive and anxiety disorder  
Mixed depressive and anxiety disorder is characterised by symptoms of both 
anxiety and depression more days than not for a period of two weeks or more. 
Depressive symptoms include depressed mood or markedly diminished interest or 
pleasure in activities. Th ere are multiple anxiety symptoms, which may include 
feeling nervous, anxious, or on edge, not being able to control worrying thoughts, 
fear that something awful will happen, having trouble relaxing, muscle tension, or 
sympathetic autonomic symptoms. Neith er set of symptoms, considered separately, 
is sufficiently severe, numerous, or persistent to justify a diagnosis of another 
depressive disorder or an anxiety or fear -related disorder. The symptoms result in 
significant distress or significant impairment i n personal, family, social, educational, 
occupational or other important areas of functioning. There is no history of manic or 
mixed episodes, which would indicate the presence of a bipolar disorder.  
 
  6A7Y   Other specified depressive disorders  
 
  6A7Z   Depressive disorders, unspecified  
 
  6A80   Symptomatic and course presentations for mood episodes in mood 
disorders  
These categories may be applied to describe the presentation and characteristics of 
mood episodes in the context of single episode  depressive disorder, recurrent 
depressive disorder, bipolar type I disorder, or bipolar type II disorder. These 
categories indicate the presence of specific, important features of the clinical 
presentation or of the course, onset, and pattern of mood epis odes. These 
categories are not mutually exclusive, and as many may be added as apply.  
Coding Note:  These categories should never be used in primary coding. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify s pecific 
clinically important features of mood episodes in mood disorders.  
Coded Elsewhere:  Mental or behavioural disorders associated with pregnancy, 
childbirth or the puerperium, without psychotic symptoms 
(6E20)  
Mental or behavioural disorders associated  with pregnancy, 
childbirth or the puerperium, with psychotic symptoms 
(6E21)  
 
6A80.0  Prominent anxiety symptoms in mood episodes  
In the context of a current depressive, manic, mixed, or hypomanic episode, 
prominent and clinically significant anxiety sympt oms (e.g., feeling nervous, anxious 
or on edge, not being able to control worrying thoughts, fear that something awful 
will happen, having trouble relaxing, motor tension, autonomic symptoms) have 
been present for most of the time during the episode. If th ere have been panic 
attacks during a current depressive or mixed episode, these should be recorded 
separately.  
When the diagnostic requirements for both a mood disorder and an anxiety or fear -
related disorder are met, the anxiety or fear -related disorder s hould also be 
diagnosed.  
Coding Note:  These categories should never be used in primary coding. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify specific 
clinically important features of mood episodes in moo d disorders.  
 428  ICD-11 MMS  
 6A80.1  Panic attacks in mood episodes  
In the context of a current mood episode (manic, depressive, mixed, or hypomanic), 
there have been recurrent panic attacks (i.e., at least two) during the past month 
that occur specifically in response to  anxiety -provoking cognitions that are features 
of the mood episode. If panic attacks occur exclusively in response to such 
thoughts, panic attacks should be recorded using this qualifier rather than assigning 
an additional co -occurring diagnosis of panic disorder.  
If some panic attacks over the course of the depressive or mixed episode have 
been unexpected and not exclusively in response to depressive or anxiety -
provoking thoughts, a separate diagnosis of panic disorder should be assigned.  
Coding Note:  These categories should never be used in primary coding. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify specific 
clinically important features of mood episodes in mood disorders.  
Exclusions:  Panic disorder ( 6B01)  
 
6A80.2  Current depressive episode persistent  
The diagnostic requirements for a depressive episode are currently met and have 
been met continuously for at least the past 2 years.  
Coding Note:  These categories should never be used in primary coding. T he codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify specific 
clinically important features of mood episodes in mood disorders.  
 
6A80.3  Current depressive episode with melancholia  
In the context of a current Dep ressive Episode, several of the following symptoms 
have been present during the worst period of the current episode: loss of interest or 
pleasure in most activities that are normally enjoyable to the individual (i.e., 
pervasive anhedonia); lack of emotiona l reactivity to normally pleasurable stimuli or 
circumstances (i.e., mood does not lift even transiently with exposure); terminal 
insomnia (i.e., waking in the morning two hours or more before the usual time); 
depressive symptoms are worse in the morning; marked psychomotor retardation or 
agitation; marked loss of appetite or loss of weight.  
Coding Note:  These categories should never be used in primary coding. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify  specific 
clinically important features of mood episodes in mood disorders.  
 
6A80.4  Seasonal pattern of mood episode onset  
In the context of recurrent depressive disorder, bipolar type I or bipolar type II 
disorder, there has been a regular seasonal pattern of onset and remission of at 
least one type of episode (i.e., depressive, manic, mixed, or hypomanic episodes), 
with a su bstantial majority of the relevant mood episodes corresponding to the 
seasonal pattern. (In bipolar type I and bipolar type II disorder, all types of mood 
episodes may not follow this pattern.) A seasonal pattern should be differentiated 
from an episode th at is coincidental with a particular season but predominantly 
related to a psychological stressor that regularly occurs at that time of the year (e.g., 
seasonal unemployment).  
Coding Note:  These categories should never be used in primary coding. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify specific 
clinically important features of mood episodes in mood disorders.  
 ICD-11 MMS  429 
 6A80.5  Rapid cycling  
In the context of bipolar type I or bipolar type II disorder, there ha s been a high 
frequency of mood episodes (at least four) over the past 12 months. There may be 
a switch from one polarity of mood to the other, or the mood episodes may be 
demarcated by a period of remission. In individuals with a high frequency of mood 
episodes, some may have a shorter duration than those usually observed in bipolar 
type I or bipolar type II disorder. In particular, depressive periods may only last 
several days. If depressive and manic symptoms alternate very rapidly (i.e., from 
day to day  or within the same day), a mixed episode should be diagnosed rather 
than rapid cycling.  
Coding Note:  These categories should never be used in primary coding. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identif y specific 
clinically important features of mood episodes in mood disorders.  
 
  6A8Y   Other specified mood disorders  
 
  6A8Z   Mood disorders, unspecified  
 
Anxiety or fear -related disorders (6B00 ‑6B0Z)  
Anxiety and fear -related disorders are characterised by excessive fear and anxiety and related 
behavioural disturbances, with symptoms that are severe enough to result in significant distress or 
significant impairment in personal, family, social, education al, occupational, or other important areas 
of functioning. Fear and anxiety are closely related phenomena; fear represents a reaction to 
perceived imminent threat in the present, whereas anxiety is more future -oriented, referring to 
perceived anticipated t hreat. A key differentiating feature among the Anxiety and fear -related 
disorders are disorder -specific foci of apprehension, that is, the stimulus or situation that triggers the 
fear or anxiety. The clinical presentation of Anxiety and fear -related disord ers typically includes 
specific associated cognitions that can assist in differentiating among the disorders by clarifying the 
focus of apprehension.  
Coded Elsewhere:  Substance -induced anxiety disorders  
Hypochondriasis (6B23)  
Secondary anxiety syndrome (6E 63) 
  6B00   Generalised anxiety disorder  
Generalised anxiety disorder is characterised by marked symptoms of anxiety that 
persist for at least several months, for more days than not, manifested by either 
general apprehension (i.e. ‘free -floating anxiety’)  or excessive worry focused on 
multiple everyday events, most often concerning family, health, finances, and 
school or work, together with additional symptoms such as muscular tension or 
motor restlessness, sympathetic autonomic over -activity, subjective e xperience of 
nervousness, difficulty maintaining concentration, irritability, or sleep disturbance. 
The symptoms result in significant distress or significant impairment in personal, 
family, social, educational, occupational, or other important areas of fu nctioning. 
The symptoms are not a manifestation of another health condition and are not due 
to the effects of a substance or medication on the central nervous system.  
 430  ICD-11 MMS  
   6B01   Panic disorder  
Panic disorder is characterised by recurrent unexpected panic at tacks that are not 
restricted to particular stimuli or situations. Panic attacks are discrete episodes of 
intense fear or apprehension accompanied by the rapid and concurrent onset of 
several characteristic symptoms (e.g. palpitations or increased heart ra te, sweating, 
trembling, shortness of breath, chest pain, dizziness or lightheadedness, chills, hot 
flushes, fear of imminent death). In addition, panic disorder is characterised by 
persistent concern about the recurrence or significance of panic attacks, or 
behaviours intended to avoid their recurrence, that results in significant impairment 
in personal, family, social, educational, occupational, or other important areas of 
functioning. The symptoms are not a manifestation of another medical condition and 
are not due to the effects of a substance or medication on the central nervous 
system.  
Exclusions:  Panic attack (MB23.H)  
 
  6B02   Agoraphobia  
Agoraphobia is characterised by marked and excessive fear or anxiety that occurs 
in response to multiple situatio ns where escape might be difficult or help might not 
be available, such as using public transportation, being in crowds, being outside the 
home alone (e.g., in shops, theatres, standing in line). The individual is consistently 
anxious about these situation s due to a fear of specific negative outcomes (e.g., 
panic attacks, other incapacitating or embarrassing physical symptoms). The 
situations are actively avoided, entered only under specific circumstances such as 
in the presence of a trusted companion, or e ndured with intense fear or anxiety. The 
symptoms persist for at least several months, and are sufficiently severe to result in 
significant distress or significant impairment in personal, family, social, educational, 
occupational, or other important areas of functioning.  
 
  6B03   Specific phobia  
Specific phobia is characterised by a marked and excessive fear or anxiety that 
consistently occurs upon exposure or anticipation of exposure to one or more 
specific objects or situations (e.g., proximity to certain animals, flying, heights, 
closed spaces,  sight of blood or injury) that is out of proportion to actual danger. 
The phobic objects or situations are avoided or else endured with intense fear or 
anxiety. Symptoms persist for at least several months and are sufficiently severe to 
result in signific ant distress or significant impairment in personal, family, social, 
educational, occupational, or other important areas of functioning.  
Inclusions:  Simple phobia  
Exclusions:  Body dysmorphic disorder (6B21)  
Hypochondriasis (6B23)  
 ICD-11 MMS  431 
   6B04   Social anxiety di sorder  
Social anxiety disorder is characterised by marked and excessive fear or anxiety 
that consistently occurs in one or more social situations such as social interactions 
(e.g. having a conversation), doing something while feeling observed (e.g. eating or 
drinking in the presence of others), or performing in front of others (e.g. giving a 
speech). The individual is concerned that he or she will act in a way, or show 
anxiety symptoms, that will be negatively evaluated by others. Relevant social 
situations  are consistently avoided or else endured with intense fear or anxiety. The 
symptoms persist for at least several months and are sufficiently severe to result in 
significant distress or significant impairment in personal, family, social, educational, 
occup ational, or other important areas of functioning.  
 
  6B05   Separation anxiety disorder  
Separation anxiety disorder is characterised by marked and excessive fear or 
anxiety about separation from specific attachment figures. In children and 
adolescents, sep aration anxiety typically focuses on caregivers, parents or other 
family members and the fear or anxiety is beyond what would be considered 
developmentally normative. In adults, the focus is typically a romantic partner or 
children. Manifestations of separ ation anxiety may include thoughts of harm or 
untoward events befalling the attachment figure, reluctance to go to school or work, 
recurrent excessive distress upon separation, reluctance or refusal to sleep away 
from the attachment figure, and recurrent n ightmares about separation. The 
symptoms persist for at least several months and are sufficiently severe to result in 
significant distress or significant impairment in personal, family, social, educational, 
occupational, or other important areas of functio ning.  
Exclusions:  mood [affective] disorders  (6A60‑6A8Z)  
Selective mutism (6B06)  
Social anxiety disorder (6B04)  
 
  6B06   Selective mutism  
Selective mutism is characterised by consistent selectivity in speaking, such that a 
child demonstrates adequate lang uage competence in specific social situations, 
typically at home, but consistently fails to speak in others, typically at school. The 
disturbance lasts for at least one month, is not limited to the first month of school, 
and is of sufficient severity to in terfere with educational achievement or with social 
communication. Failure to speak is not due to a lack of knowledge of, or comfort 
with, the spoken language required in the social situation (e.g. a different language 
spoken at school than at home).  
Exclu sions:  Schizophrenia (6A20)  
transient mutism as part of separation anxiety in young 
children (6B05)  
Autism spectrum disorder (6A02)  
 
  6B0Y   Other specified anxiety or fear -related disorders  
 
  6B0Z   Anxiety or fear -related disorders, unspecified  
 432  ICD-11 MMS  
 Obsessive -compulsive or related disorders (6B20 ‑6B2Z)  
Obsessive -compulsive and related disorders is a group of disorders characterised by repetitive 
thoughts and behaviours that are believed to share similari ties in aetiology and key diagnostic 
validators. Cognitive phenomena such as obsessions, intrusive thoughts and preoccupations are 
central to a subset of these conditions (i.e., obsessive -compulsive disorder, body dysmorphic 
disorder, hypochondriasis, and olfactory reference disorder) and are accompanied by related 
repetitive behaviours. Hoarding Disorder is not associated with intrusive unwanted thoughts but rather 
is characterised by a compulsive need to accumulate possessions and distress related to disc arding 
them. Also included in the grouping are body -focused repetitive behaviour disorders, which are 
primarily characterised by recurrent and habitual actions directed at the integument (e.g., hair -pulling, 
skin-picking) and lack a prominent cognitive asp ect. The symptoms result in significant distress or 
significant impairment in personal, family, social, educational, occupational, or other important areas 
of functioning.  
Coded Elsewhere:  Substance -induced obsessive -compulsive or related disorders  
Secondary obsessive -compulsive or related syndrome (6E64)  
Tourette syndrome (8A05.00)  
  6B20   Obsessive -compulsive disorder  
Obsessive -Compulsive Disorder is characterised by the presence of persistent 
obsessions or compulsions, or most commonly both. Obse ssions are repetitive and 
persistent thoughts, images, or impulses/urges that are intrusive, unwanted, and are 
commonly associated with anxiety. The individual attempts to ignore or suppress 
obsessions or to neutralize them by performing compulsions. Compu lsions are 
repetitive behaviours including repetitive mental acts that the individual feels driven 
to perform in response to an obsession, according to rigid rules, or to achieve a 
sense of ‘completeness’. In order for obsessive -compulsive disorder to be 
diagnosed, obsessions and compulsions must be time consuming (e.g. taking more 
than an hour per day) or result in significant distress or significant impairment in 
personal, family, social, educational, occupational or other important areas of 
functioning.  
Inclusions:  anankastic neurosis  
obsessive -compulsive neurosis  
Exclusions:  obsessive compulsive behaviour (MB23.4)  
 
6B20.0  Obsessive -compulsive disorder with fair to good insight  
All definitional requirements of obsessive -compulsive disorder are met. Much o f the 
time, the individual is able to entertain the possibility that his or her disorder -specific 
beliefs may not be true and is willing to accept an alternative explanation for his or 
her experience. At circumscribed times (e.g., when highly anxious), the  individual 
may demonstrate no insight.  
 
6B20.1  Obsessive -compulsive disorder with poor to absent insight  
All definitional requirements of obsessive -compulsive disorder are met. Most or all 
of the time, the individual is convinced that the disorder -specifi c beliefs are true and 
cannot accept an alternative explanation for their experience. The lack of insight 
exhibited by the individual does not vary markedly as a function of anxiety level.  
 
6B20.Z  Obsessive -compulsive disorder, unspecified  
 ICD-11 MMS  433 
   6B21   Body d ysmorphic disorder  
Body Dysmorphic Disorder is characterised by persistent preoccupation with one or 
more perceived defects or flaws in appearance that are either unnoticeable or only 
slightly noticeable to others. Individuals experience excessive self -consciousness, 
often with ideas of reference (i.e., the conviction that people are taking notice, 
judging, or talking about the perceived defect or flaw). In response to their 
preoccupation, individuals engage in repetitive and excessive behaviours that 
include repeated examination of the appearance or severity of the perceived defect 
or flaw, excessive attempts to camouflage or alter the perceived defect, or marked 
avoidance of social situations or triggers that increase distress about the perceived 
defect or  flaw. The symptoms are sufficiently severe to result in significant distress 
or significant impairment in personal, family, social, educational, occupational or 
other important areas of functioning.  
Exclusions:  Anorexia Nervosa (6B80)  
Bodily distress diso rder (6C20)  
Concern about body appearance  (QD30‑QD3Z)  
 
6B21.0  Body dysmorphic disorder with fair to good insight  
All definitional requirements of body dysmorphic disorder are met. Much of the time, 
the individual is able to entertain the possibility that h is or her disorder -specific 
beliefs may not be true and is willing to accept an alternative explanation for his or 
her experience. At circumscribed times (e.g., when highly anxious), the individual 
may demonstrate no insight.  
 
6B21.1  Body dysmorphic disord er with poor to absent insight  
All definitional requirements of body dysmorphic disorder are met. Most or all of the 
time, the individual is convinced that the disorder -specific beliefs are true and 
cannot accept an alternative explanation for their experi ence. The lack of insight 
exhibited by the individual does not vary markedly as a function of anxiety level.  
 
6B21.Z  Body dysmorphic disorder, unspecified  
 
  6B22   Olfactory reference disorder  
Olfactory Reference Disorder is characterised by persistent preoccupation with the 
belief that one is emitting a perceived foul or offensive body odour or breath that is 
either unnoticeable or only slightly noticeable to others. Individuals experience 
exce ssive self -consciousness about the perceived odour, often with ideas of 
reference (i.e., the conviction that people are taking notice, judging, or talking about 
the odour). In response to their preoccupation, individuals engage in repetitive and 
excessive behaviours such as repeatedly checking for body odour or checking the 
perceived source of the smell, or repeatedly seeking reassurance, excessive 
attempts to camouflage, alter, or prevent the perceived odour, or marked avoidance 
of social situations or tri ggers that increase distress about the perceived foul or 
offensive odour. The symptoms are sufficiently severe to result in significant 
distress or significant impairment in personal, family, social, educational, 
occupational or other important areas of fu nctioning.  
 434  ICD-11 MMS  
 6B22.0  Olfactory reference disorder with fair to good insight  
All definitional requirements of olfactory reference disorder are met. Much of the 
time, the individual is able to entertain the possibility that his or her disorder -specific 
beliefs may not be true and is willing to accept an alternative explanation for h is or 
her experience. At circumscribed times (e.g., when highly anxious), the individual 
may demonstrate no insight.  
 
6B22.1  Olfactory reference disorder with poor to absent insight  
All definitional requirements of olfactory reference disorder are met. Mos t or all of 
the time, the individual is convinced that the disorder -specific beliefs are true and 
cannot accept an alternative explanation for their experience. The lack of insight 
exhibited by the individual does not vary markedly as a function of anxiety  level.  
 
6B22.Z  Olfactory reference disorder, unspecified  
 
  6B23   Hypochondriasis  
Hypochondriasis is characterised by persistent preoccupation or fear about the 
possibility of having one or more serious, progressive or life -threatening illnesses. 
The pre occupation is accompanied by either: 1) repetitive and excessive health -
related behaviours, such as repeatedly checking the body for evidence of illness, 
spending inordinate amounts of time searching for information about the feared 
illness, repeatedly see king reassurance (e.g. arranging multiple medical 
consultations); or 2) maladaptive avoidance behaviour related to health (e.g. avoids 
medical appointments). The symptoms result in significant distress or significant 
impairment in personal, family, social,  educational, occupational or other important 
areas of functioning.  
Inclusions:  Hypochondriacal neurosis  
Illness anxiety disorder  
Exclusions:  Body dysmorphic disorder (6B21)  
Bodily distress disorder (6C20)  
Fear of cancer (MG24.0)  
 
6B23.0  Hypochondriasis wi th fair to good insight  
All definitional requirements of hypochondriasis are met. Much of the time, the 
individual is able to entertain the possibility that his or her disorder -specific beliefs 
may not be true and is willing to accept an alternative explan ation for his or her 
experience. At circumscribed times (e.g., when highly anxious), the individual may 
demonstrate no insight.  
 
6B23.1  Hypochondriasis with poor to absent insight  
All definitional requirements of hypochondriasis are met. Most or all of the  time, the 
individual is convinced that the disorder -specific beliefs are true and cannot accept 
an alternative explanation for their experience. The lack of insight exhibited by the 
individual does not vary markedly as a function of anxiety level.  
 
6B23.Z  Hypochondriasis, unspecified  
 ICD-11 MMS  435 
   6B24   Hoarding disorder  
Hoarding disorder is characterised by accumulation of possessions that results in 
living spaces becoming cluttered to the point that their use or safety is 
compromised. Accumulation occurs due to both repetitive urges or behaviours 
related to amassing item s and difficulty discarding possessions due to a perceived 
need to save items and distress associated with discarding them. If living areas are 
uncluttered this is only due to the intervention of third parties (e.g., family members, 
cleaners, authorities).  Amassment may be passive (e.g. accumulation of incoming 
flyers or mail) or active (e.g. excessive acquisition of free, purchased, or stolen 
items). The symptoms result in significant distress or significant impairment in 
personal, family, social, educatio nal, occupational or other important areas of 
functioning.  
 
6B24.0  Hoarding disorder with fair to good insight  
All definitional requirements of hoarding disorder are met. The individual recognizes 
that hoarding -related beliefs and behaviours (pertaining to  excessive acquisition, 
difficulty discarding, or clutter) are problematic. This qualifier level may still be 
applied if, at circumscribed times (e.g., when being forced to discard items), the 
individual demonstrates no insight.  
 
6B24.1  Hoarding disorder w ith poor to absent insight  
All definitional requirements of hoarding disorder are met. Most or all of the time, the 
individual is convinced that that hoarding -related beliefs and behaviours (pertaining 
to excessive acquisition, difficulty discarding, or cl utter) are not problematic, despite 
evidence to the contrary. The lack of insight exhibited by the individual does not 
vary markedly as a function of anxiety level.  
 
6B24.Z  Hoarding disorder, unspecified  
 
  6B25   Body -focused repetitive behaviour disorder s 
Body focused repetitive behaviour disorders are characterised by recurrent and 
habitual actions directed at the integument (e.g. hair -pulling, skin -picking, lip -biting), 
typically accompanied by unsuccessful attempts to decrease or stop the behaviour 
involved, and which lead to dermatological sequelae (e.g., hair loss, skin lesions, lip 
abrasions). The behaviour may occur in brief episodes scattered throughout the day 
or in less frequent but more sustained periods. The symptoms result in significant 
distress or significant impairment in personal, family, social, educational, 
occupational or other important areas of functioning.  
 
6B25.0  Trichotillomania  
Trichotillomania is characterised by recurrent pulling of one’s own hair leading to 
significant hair loss , accompanied by unsuccessful attempts to decrease or stop the 
behaviour. Hair pulling may occur from any region of the body in which hair grows 
but the most common sites are the scalp, eyebrows, and eyelids. Hair pulling may 
occur in brief episodes scatte red throughout the day or in less frequent but more 
sustained periods. The symptoms result in significant distress or significant 
impairment in personal, family, social, educational, occupational or other important 
areas of functioning.  
Inclusions:  Compuls ive hair plucking  
Exclusions:  stereotyped movement disorder with hair -plucking (6A06)  
 436  ICD-11 MMS  
 6B25.1  Excoriation disorder  
Excoriation disorder is characterised by recurrent picking of one’s own skin leading 
to skin lesions, accompanied by unsuccessful attempts to decrease or stop the 
behaviour. The most commonly picked sites are the face, arms and hands, but 
many individuals pick from multiple body sites. Skin picking may occur in brief 
episodes scattered throughout the day or in less frequent but more sustained 
periods. The symptoms result in significant distress or significant impairment in 
personal, family, social, educatio nal, occupational or other important areas of 
functioning.  
Inclusions:  skin picking disorder  
Exclusions:  Stereotyped movement disorder (6A06)  
Acute excoriation of skin (ME62.9)  
Chronic excoriation of skin (ME63.7)  
 
6B25.Y  Other specified body -focused repet itive behaviour disorders  
 
6B25.Z  Body -focused repetitive behaviour disorders, unspecified  
 
  6B2Y   Other specified obsessive -compulsive or related disorders  
 
  6B2Z   Obsessive -compulsive or related disorders, unspecified  
 ICD-11 MMS  437 
 Disorders specifically associated with stress (6B40 ‑6B4Z)  
Disorders specifically associated with stress are directly related to exposure to a stressful or traumatic 
event, or a series of such events o r adverse experiences. For each of the disorders in this grouping, 
an identifiable stressor is a necessary, though not sufficient, causal factor. Although not all individuals 
exposed to an identified stressor will develop a disorder, the disorders in this grouping would not have 
occurred without experiencing the stressor. Stressful events for some disorders in this grouping are 
within the normal range of life experiences (e.g., divorce, socio -economic problems, bereavement). 
Other disorders require the expe rience of a stressor of an extremely threatening or horrific nature (i.e., 
potentially traumatic events). With all disorders in this grouping, it is the nature, pattern, and duration 
of the symptoms that arise in response to the stressful events —together w ith associated functional 
impairment —that distinguishes the disorders.  
Exclusions:  Burnout (QD85)  
Acute stress reaction (QE84)  
  6B40   Post traumatic stress disorder  
Post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) may develop following exposure to an 
extremely thre atening or horrific event or series of events. It is characterised by all 
of the following: 1) re -experiencing the traumatic event or events in the present in 
the form of vivid intrusive memories, flashbacks, or nightmares. Re -experiencing 
may occur via on e or multiple sensory modalities and is typically accompanied by 
strong or overwhelming emotions, particularly fear or horror, and strong physical 
sensations; 2) avoidance of thoughts and memories of the event or events, or 
avoidance of activities, situati ons, or people reminiscent of the event(s); and 3) 
persistent perceptions of heightened current threat, for example as indicated by 
hypervigilance or an enhanced startle reaction to stimuli such as unexpected 
noises. The symptoms persist for at least sever al weeks and cause significant 
impairment in personal, family, social, educational, occupational or other important 
areas of functioning.  
Inclusions:  Traumatic neurosis  
Exclusions:  Acute stress reaction (QE84)  
Complex post traumatic stress disorder (6B41)  
 
  6B41   Complex post traumatic stress disorder  
Complex post traumatic stress disorder (Complex PTSD) is a disorder that may 
develop following exposure to an event or series of events of an extremely 
threatening or horrific nature, most commonly prolonged  or repetitive events from 
which escape is difficult or impossible (e.g. torture, slavery, genocide campaigns, 
prolonged domestic violence, repeated childhood sexual or physical abuse). All 
diagnostic requirements for PTSD are met. In addition, Complex PTS D is 
characterised by severe and persistent 1) problems in affect regulation; 2) beliefs 
about oneself as diminished, defeated or worthless, accompanied by feelings of 
shame, guilt or failure related to the traumatic event; and 3) difficulties in sustainin g 
relationships and in feeling close to others. These symptoms cause significant 
impairment in personal, family, social, educational, occupational or other important 
areas of functioning.  
Exclusions:  Post traumatic stress disorder (6B40)  
Personality disord er (6D10)  
 438  ICD-11 MMS  
   6B42   Prolonged grief disorder  
Prolonged grief disorder is a disturbance in which, following the death of a partner, 
parent, child, or other person close to the bereaved, there is persistent and 
pervasive grief response characterised by longi ng for the deceased or persistent 
preoccupation with the deceased accompanied by intense emotional pain (e.g. 
sadness, guilt, anger, denial, blame, difficulty accepting the death, feeling one has 
lost a part of one’s self, an inability to experience positi ve mood, emotional 
numbness, difficulty in engaging with social or other activities). The grief response 
has persisted for an atypically long period of time following the loss (more than 6 
months at a minimum) and clearly exceeds expected social, cultural or religious 
norms for the individual’s culture and context. Grief reactions that have persisted for 
longer periods that are within a normative period of grieving given the person’s 
cultural and religious context are viewed as normal bereavement responses and are 
not assigned a diagnosis. The disturbance causes significant impairment in 
personal, family, social, educational, occupational or other important areas of 
functioning.  
 
  6B43   Adjustment disorder  
Adjustment disorder is a maladaptive reaction to a n identifiable psychosocial 
stressor or multiple stressors (e.g. divorce, illness or disability, socio -economic 
problems, conflicts at home or work) that usually emerges within a month of the 
stressor. The disorder is characterised by preoccupation with th e stressor or its 
consequences, including excessive worry, recurrent and distressing thoughts about 
the stressor, or constant rumination about its implications, as well as by failure to 
adapt to the stressor that causes significant impairment in personal, family, social, 
educational, occupational or other important areas of functioning. The symptoms 
are not better explained by another mental disorder (e.g., Mood Disorder, another 
Disorder Specifically Associated with Stress) and typically resolve within 6 m onths, 
unless the stressor persists for a longer duration.  
Exclusions:  separation anxiety disorder of childhood (6B05)  
Recurrent depressive disorder (6A71)  
Single episode depressive disorder (6A70)  
Prolonged grief disorder (6B42)  
Uncomplicated bereavement (QE62)  
Burnout (QD85)  
Acute stress reaction (QE84)  
 ICD-11 MMS  439 
   6B44   Reactive attachment disorder  
Reactive attachment disorder is characterised by grossly abnormal attachment 
behaviours in early childhood, occurring in the context of a history of grossly 
inadequate child care (e.g., severe neglect, maltreatment, institutional deprivation). 
Even when an  adequate primary caregiver is newly available, the child does not 
turn to the primary caregiver for comfort, support and nurture, rarely displays 
security -seeking behaviours towards any adult, and does not respond when comfort 
is offered. Reactive attachm ent disorder can only be diagnosed in children, and 
features of the disorder develop within the first 5 years of life. However, the disorder 
cannot be diagnosed before the age of 1 year (or a developmental age of less than 
9 months), when the capacity for selective attachments may not be fully developed, 
or in the context of Autism spectrum disorder.  
Exclusions:  Asperger syndrome (6A02)  
disinhibited attachment disorder of childhood (6B45)  
 
  6B45   Disinhibited social engagement disorder  
Disinhibited social  engagement disorder is characterised by grossly abnormal social 
behaviour, occurring in the context of a history of grossly inadequate child care 
(e.g., severe neglect, institutional deprivation). The child approaches adults 
indiscriminately, lacks retice nce to approach, will go away with unfamiliar adults, 
and exhibits overly familiar behaviour towards strangers. Disinhibited social 
engagement disorder can only be diagnosed in children, and features of the 
disorder develop within the first 5 years of life . However, the disorder cannot be 
diagnosed before the age of 1 year (or a developmental age of less than 9 months), 
when the capacity for selective attachments may not be fully developed, or in the 
context of Autism spectrum disorder.  
Exclusions:  Asperger  syndrome (6A02)  
Adjustment disorder (6B43)  
Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (6A05)  
reactive attachment disorder of childhood (6B44)  
 
  6B4Y   Other specified disorders specifically associated with stress  
 
  6B4Z   Disorders specifically associated  with stress, unspecified  
 440  ICD-11 MMS  
 Dissociative disorders (6B60 ‑6B6Z)  
Dissociative disorders are characterised by involuntary disruption or discontinuity in the normal 
integration of one or more of the following: identity, sensations, perceptions, affects, thought s, 
memories, control over bodily movements, or behaviour. Disruption or discontinuity may be complete, 
but is more commonly partial, and can vary from day to day or even from hour to hour. The symptoms 
of dissociative disorders are not due to the direct ef fects of a medication or substance, including 
withdrawal effects, are not better explained by another Mental, behavioural, or neurodevelopmental 
disorder, a Sleep -wake disorder, a Disease of the nervous system or other health condition, and are 
not part of  an accepted cultural, religious, or spiritual practice. Dissociative symptoms in dissociative 
disorders are sufficiently severe to result in significant impairment in personal, family, social, 
educational, occupational or other important areas of function ing. 
Coded Elsewhere:  Secondary dissociative syndrome (6E65)  
  6B60   Dissociative neurological symptom disorder  
Dissociative neurological symptom disorder is characterised by the presentation of 
motor, sensory, or cognitive symptoms that imply an involuntary discontinuity in the 
normal integration of motor, sensory, or cognitive functions and are not consistent 
with a recognised disease of the nervous system, other mental or behavioural 
disorder, or other medical condition. The symptoms do not occur exclusively during 
another dissociative disorder and are not due to the effects of a substance or 
medication on the cen tral nervous system, including withdrawal effects, or a Sleep -
Wake disorder.  
Exclusions:  Factitious disorders  (6D50‑6D5Z)  
 
6B60.0  Dissociative neurological symptom disorder, with visual disturbance  
Dissociative neurological symptom disorder, with visual di sturbance is characterised 
by visual symptoms such as blindness, tunnel vision, diplopia, visual distortions or 
hallucinations that are not consistent with a recognised disease of the nervous 
system, other mental, behavioural or neurodevelopmental disorder , or other medical 
condition and do not occur exclusively during another dissociative disorder.  
 
6B60.1  Dissociative neurological symptom disorder, with auditory disturbance  
Dissociative neurological symptom disorder, with auditory disturbance is 
character ised by auditory symptoms such as loss of hearing or auditory 
hallucinations that are not consistent with a recognised disease of the nervous 
system, other mental, behavioural or neurodevelopmental disorder, or other medical 
condition and do not occur excl usively during another dissociative disorder.  
 
6B60.2  Dissociative neurological symptom disorder, with vertigo or dizziness  
Dissociative neurological symptom disorder, with vertigo or dizziness is 
characterised by a sensation of spinning while stationary ( vertigo) or dizziness that 
is not consistent with a recognised disease of the nervous system, other mental, 
behavioural or neurodevelopmental disorder, or other medical condition and does 
not occur exclusively during another dissociative disorder.  
 ICD-11 MMS  441 
 6B60.3  Dissociative neurological symptom disorder, with other sensory disturbance  
Dissociative neurological symptom disorder, with other sensory disturbance is 
characterised by sensory symptoms not identified in other specific categories in this 
grouping such as numbness, tightness, tingling, burning, pain, or other symptoms 
related to touch, smell, taste, balance, proprioception, kinesthesia, or 
thermoception. The symptoms are not consistent with a recognised disease of the 
nervous system, other mental, behaviour al or neurodevelopmental disorder, or 
other medical condition and do not occur exclusively during another dissociative 
disorder.  
 
6B60.4  Dissociative neurological symptom disorder, with non -epileptic seizures  
Dissociative neurological symptom disorder, wit h non -epileptic seizures is 
characterised by a symptomatic presentation of seizures or convulsions that are not 
consistent with a recognised disease of the nervous system, other mental, 
behavioural or neurodevelopmental disorder, or other medical condition  and do not 
occur exclusively during another dissociative disorder.  
 
6B60.5  Dissociative neurological symptom disorder, with speech disturbance  
Dissociative neurological symptom disorder, with speech disturbance is 
characterised by symptoms such as difficulty with speaking (dysphonia), loss of the 
ability to speak (aphonia) or difficult or unclear articulation of speech (dysarthria) 
that are not c onsistent with a recognised disease of the nervous system, a 
neurodevelopmental or neurocognitive disorder, other mental, behavioural or 
neurodevelopmental disorder, or other medical condition and do not occur 
exclusively during another dissociative disord er. 
 
6B60.6  Dissociative neurological symptom disorder, with paresis or weakness  
Dissociative neurological symptom disorder, with paresis or weakness is 
characterised by a difficulty or inability to intentionally move parts of the body or to 
coordinate mov ements that is not consistent with a recognised disease of the 
nervous system, other mental, behavioural or neurodevelopmental disorder, or 
other medical condition and does not occur exclusively during another dissociative 
disorder.  
 
6B60.7  Dissociative ne urological symptom disorder, with gait disturbance  
Dissociative neurological symptom disorder, with gait disturbance is characterised 
by symptoms involving the individual’s ability or manner of walking, including ataxia 
and the inability to stand unaided, that are not consistent with a recognised disease 
of the nervous system, other mental, behavioural or neurodevelopmental disorder, 
or other medical condition and do not occur exclusively during another dissociative 
disorder.  
 
6B60.8  Dissociative neurological symptom disorder, with movement disturbance  
Dissociative neurological symptom disorder, with movement disturbance is 
characterised by symptoms such as chorea, myoclonus, tremor, dystonia, facial 
spasm, parkinsonism, or dyskinesia that are not consistent with a recognised 
disease of the nervous system, other mental, behavioural or neurodevelopmental 
disorder, or other medical condition and do not occur exclusively during another 
dissociative disorder.  
 442  ICD-11 MMS  
 6B60.80  Dissociative neurologi cal symptom disorder, with chorea  
Dissociative neurological symptom disorder, with chorea is characterised by 
irregular, non -repetitive, brief, jerky, flowing movements that move randomly from 
one part of the body to another that are not consistent with a recognised disease of 
the nervous system, other mental, behavioural or neurodevelopmental disorder, or 
other medical condition and do not occur exclusively during another dissociative 
disorder.  
 
6B60.81  Dissociative neurological symptom disorder, with myoc lonus  
Dissociative neurological symptom disorder, with myoclonus is characterised by 
sudden rapid jerks that may be focal, multifocal or generalised that are not 
consistent with a recognised disease of the nervous system, other mental, 
behavioural or neuro developmental disorder, or other medical condition and do not 
occur exclusively during another dissociative disorder.  
 
6B60.82  Dissociative neurological symptom disorder, with tremor  
Dissociative neurological symptom disorder, with tremor is characterised by 
involuntary oscillation of a body part that is not consistent with a recognised disease 
of the nervous system, other mental, behavioural or neurodevelopmental disorder, 
or other medical condition and does not occur exclusively during another 
dissociativ e disorder.  
 
6B60.83  Dissociative neurological symptom disorder, with dystonia  
Dissociative neurological symptom disorder, with dystonia is characterised by 
sustained muscle contractions that frequently cause twisting and repetitive 
movements or abnormal p ostures that are not consistent with a recognised disease 
of the nervous system, other mental, behavioural or neurodevelopmental disorder, 
or other medical condition and do not occur exclusively during another dissociative 
disorder.  
 
6B60.84  Dissociative n eurological symptom disorder, with facial spasm  
Dissociative neurological symptom disorder, with facial spasm is characterised by 
involuntary muscle contractions or twitching of the face that is not consistent with a 
recognised disease of the nervous syste m, other mental, behavioural or 
neurodevelopmental disorder, or other medical condition and does not occur 
exclusively during another dissociative disorder.  
 
6B60.85  Dissociative neurological symptom disorder, with Parkinsonism  
Dissociative neurological sy mptom disorder, with Parkinsonism is characterised by 
a symptomatic presentation of a Parkinson -like syndrome in the absence of 
confirmed Parkinson disease that does not occur exclusively during another mental, 
behavioural or neurodevelopmental disorder, o ther medical condition, or another 
dissociative disorder. Dissociative neurological symptom disorder, with 
Parkinsonism can be distinguished from Parkinson disease by features such as 
abrupt onset, early disability, bilateral shaking and slowness, nondecre mental 
slowness when performing repetitive movements, voluntary resistance against 
passive movement without cogwheel rigidity, distractability, ‘give -way’ weakness, 
stuttering speech, bizarre gait, and a variety of behavioural symptoms.  
 
6B60.8Y  Dissociati ve neurological symptom disorder, with other specified movement 
disturbance  
 ICD-11 MMS  443 
 6B60.8Z  Dissociative neurological symptom disorder, with unspecified movement 
disturbance  
 
6B60.9  Dissociative neurological symptom disorder, with cognitive symptoms  
Dissociative neurological symptom disorder, with cognitive symptoms is 
characterised by impaired cognitive performance in memory, language or other 
cognitive domains that is internally inconsistent and not consistent with a 
recognised disease of the nervous system, a n eurodevelopmental or neurocognitive 
disorder, other mental, behavioural or neurodevelopmental disorder, or another 
medical condition and does not occur exclusively during another dissociative 
disorder.  
Exclusions:  Dissociative amnesia (6B61)  
 
6B60.Y  Dissociative neurological symptom disorder, with other specified symptoms  
 
6B60.Z  Dissociative neurological symptom disorder, with unspecified symptoms  
 
  6B61   Dissociative amnesia  
Dissociative amnesia is characterised by an inability to recall important 
autobiographical memories, typically of recent traumatic or stressful events, that is 
inconsistent with ordinary forgetting. The amnesia does not occur exclusively during 
another dis sociative disorder and is not better explained by another mental, 
behavioural or neurodevelopmental disorder. The amnesia is not due to the direct 
effects of a substance or medication on the central nervous system, including 
withdrawal effects, and is not due to a disease of the nervous system or to head 
trauma. The amnesia results in significant impairment in personal, family, social, 
educational, occupational or other important areas of functioning.  
Exclusions:  amnesia NOS (MB21.1)  
Amnestic disorder due t o use of alcohol (6D72.10)  
Anterograde amnesia (MB21.10)  
Retrograde amnesia (MB21.11)  
nonalcoholic organic amnesic syndrome (6D72.0)  
postictal amnesia in epilepsy  (8A60‑8A6Z)  
 
6B61.0  Dissociative amnesia with dissociative fugue  
Dissociative amnesia with di ssociative fugue is characterised by all of the features 
of Dissociative Amnesia, accompanied by dissociative fugue, i.e., a loss of a sense 
of personal identity and sudden travel away from home, work, or significant others 
for an extended period of time ( days or weeks). A new identity may be assumed.  
Exclusions:  postictal fugue in epilepsy  (8A60‑8A6Z)  
 
6B61.1  Dissociative amnesia without dissociative fugue  
Dissociative amnesia without dissociative fugue is characterised by all of the 
features of dissociati ve amnesia occurring in the absence of symptoms of 
dissociative fugue.  
 
6B61.Z  Dissociative amnesia, unspecified  
 444  ICD-11 MMS  
   6B62   Trance disorder  
Trance disorder is characterised by trance states in which there is a marked 
alteration in the individual’s state of consciousness or a loss of the individual’s 
customary sense of personal identity in which the individual experiences a 
narrowing of awareness of immediate surroundings or unusually narrow and 
selective focusing on environmental stimuli and restriction of m ovements, postures, 
and speech to repetition of a small repertoire that is experienced as being outside of 
one’s control. The trance state is not characterised by the experience of being 
replaced by an alternate identity. Trance episodes are recurrent or, if the diagnosis 
is based on a single episode, the episode has lasted for at least several days. The 
trance state is involuntary and unwanted and is not accepted as a part of a 
collective cultural or religious practice. The symptoms do not occur exclusivel y 
during another dissociative disorder and are not better explained by another mental, 
behavioural or neurodevelopmental disorder. The symptoms are not due to the 
direct effects of a substance or medication on the central nervous system, including 
withdraw al effects, exhaustion, or to hypnagogic or hypnopompic states, and are 
not due to a disease of the nervous system, head trauma, or a sleep -wake disorder. 
The symptoms result in significant distress or significant impairment in personal, 
family, social, ed ucational, occupational or other important areas of functioning.  
 
  6B63   Possession trance disorder  
Possession trance disorder is characterised by trance states in which there is a 
marked alteration in the individual’s state of consciousness and the indi vidual’s 
customary sense of personal identity is replaced by an external ‘possessing’ identity 
and in which the individual’s behaviours or movements are experienced as being 
controlled by the possessing agent. Possession trance episodes are recurrent or, i f 
the diagnosis is based on a single episode, the episode has lasted for at least 
several days. The possession trance state is involuntary and unwanted and is not 
accepted as a part of a collective cultural or religious practice. The symptoms do not 
occur exclusively during another dissociative disorder and are not better explained 
by another mental, behavioural or neurodevelopmental disorder. The symptoms are 
not due to the direct effects of a substance or medication on the central nervous 
system, includin g withdrawal effects, exhaustion, or to hypnagogic or hypnopompic 
states, and are not due to a disease of the nervous system or a sleep -wake 
disorder. The symptoms result in significant distress or significant impairment in 
personal, family, social, educat ional, occupational or other important areas of 
functioning.  
Exclusions:  Schizophrenia (6A20)  
Disorders due to use of other specified psychoactive 
substances, including medications (6C4E)  
Acute and transient psychotic disorder (6A23)  
Secondary personality change (6E68)  
 ICD-11 MMS  445 
   6B64   Dissociative identity disorder  
Dissociative identity disorder is chara cterised by disruption of identity in which there 
are two or more distinct personality states (dissociative identities) associated with 
marked discontinuities in the sense of self and agency. Each personality state 
includes its own pattern of experiencing,  perceiving, conceiving, and relating to self, 
the body, and the environment. At least two distinct personality states recurrently 
take executive control of the individual’s consciousness and functioning in 
interacting with others or with the environment, such as in the performance of 
specific aspects of daily life such as parenting, or work, or in response to specific 
situations (e.g., those that are perceived as threatening). Changes in personality 
state are accompanied by related alterations in sensation , perception, affect, 
cognition, memory, motor control, and behaviour. There are typically episodes of 
amnesia, which may be severe. The symptoms are not better explained by another 
mental, behavioural or neurodevelopmental disorder and are not due to the direct 
effects of a substance or medication on the central nervous system, including 
withdrawal effects, and are not due to a disease of the nervous system or a sleep -
wake disorder. The symptoms result in significant impairment in personal, family, 
social,  educational, occupational or other important areas of functioning.  
 
  6B65   Partial dissociative identity disorder  
Partial dissociative identity disorder is characterised by disruption of identity in 
which there are two or more distinct personality state s (dissociative identities) 
associated with marked discontinuities in the sense of self and agency. Each 
personality state includes its own pattern of experiencing, perceiving, conceiving, 
and relating to self, the body, and the environment. One personalit y state is 
dominant and normally functions in daily life, but is intruded upon by one or more 
non-dominant personality states (dissociative intrusions). These intrusions may be 
cognitive, affective, perceptual, motor, or behavioural. They are experienced a s 
interfering with the functioning of the dominant personality state and are typically 
aversive. The non -dominant personality states do not recurrently take executive 
control of the individual’s consciousness and functioning, but there may be 
occasional, l imited and transient episodes in which a distinct personality state 
assumes executive control to engage in circumscribed behaviours, such as in 
response to extreme emotional states or during episodes of self -harm or the 
reenactment of traumatic memories. T he symptoms are not better explained by 
another mental, behavioural or neurodevelopmental disorder and are not due to the 
direct effects of a substance or medication on the central nervous system, including 
withdrawal effects, and are not due to a disease of the nervous system or a sleep -
wake disorder. The symptoms result in significant impairment in personal, family, 
social, educational, occupational or other important areas of functioning.  
 446  ICD-11 MMS  
   6B66   Depersonalization -derealization disorder  
Depersonalizati on-derealization disorder is characterised by persistent or recurrent 
experiences of depersonalization, derealization, or both. Depersonalization is 
characterised by experiencing the self as strange or unreal, or feeling detached 
from, or as though one wer e an outside observer of, one’s thoughts, feelings, 
sensations, body, or actions. Derealization is characterised by experiencing other 
persons, objects, or the world as strange or unreal (e.g., dreamlike, distant, foggy, 
lifeless, colourless, or visually d istorted) or feeling detached from one’s 
surroundings. During experiences of depersonalization or derealization, reality 
testing remains intact. The experiences of depersonalization or derealization do not 
occur exclusively during another dissociative diso rder and are not better explained 
by another mental, behavioural or neurodevelopmental disorder. The experiences of 
depersonalization or derealization are not due to the direct effects of a substance or 
medication on the central nervous system, including w ithdrawal effects, and are not 
due to a disease of the nervous system or to head trauma. The symptoms result in 
significant distress or impairment in personal, family, social, educational, 
occupational or other important areas of functioning.  
 
  6B6Y   Other specified dissociative disorders  
 
  6B6Z   Dissociative disorders, unspecified  
 
Feeding or eating disorders (6B80 ‑6B8Z)  
Feeding and Eating Disorders involve abnormal eating or feeding behaviours that are not explained 
by another health condition and are  not developmentally appropriate or culturally sanctioned. Feeding 
disorders involve behavioural disturbances that are not related to body weight and shape concerns, 
such as eating of non -edible substances or voluntary regurgitation of foods. Eating disord ers involve 
abnormal eating behaviour and preoccupation with food as well as prominent body weight and shape 
concerns.  
  6B80   Anorexia Nervosa  
Anorexia Nervosa is characterised by significantly low body weight for the 
individual’s height, age and developmental stage that is not due to another health 
condition or to the unavailability of food. A commonly used threshold is body mass 
index (BMI) les s than 18.5 kg/m² in adults and BMI -for-age under 5th percentile in 
children and adolescents. Rapid weight loss (e.g. more than 20% of total body 
weight within 6 months) may replace the low body weight guideline as long as other 
diagnostic requirements are  met. Children and adolescents may exhibit failure to 
gain weight as expected based on the individual developmental trajectory rather 
than weight loss. Low body weight is accompanied by a persistent pattern of 
behaviours to prevent restoration of normal we ight, which may include behaviours 
aimed at reducing energy intake (restricted eating), purging behaviours (e.g. self -
induced vomiting, misuse of laxatives), and behaviours aimed at increasing energy 
expenditure (e.g. excessive exercise), typically associa ted with a fear of weight 
gain. Low body weight or shape is central to the person's self -evaluation or is 
inaccurately perceived to be normal or even excessive.  
 ICD-11 MMS  447 
 6B80.0  Anorexia Nervosa with significantly low body weight  
Anorexia Nervosa with significantly  low body weight meets all definitional 
requirements for Anorexia Nervosa, with BMI between 18.5 kg/m2 and 14.0 kg/m² 
for adults or between the fifth percentile and the 0.3 percentile for BMI -for-age in 
children and adolescents.  
 
6B80.00  Anorexia Nervosa w ith significantly low body weight, restricting pattern  
Anorexia Nervosa with significantly low body weight, restricting pattern refers to 
individuals who meet the definitional requirements of Anorexia Nervosa with 
significantly low body weight and who induce weight loss and maintain low body 
weight through res tricted food intake or fasting alone or in combination with 
increased energy expenditure (such as through excessive exercise) but who do not 
engage in binge eating or purging behaviours.  
 
6B80.01  Anorexia Nervosa with significantly low body weight, binge -purge pattern  
Anorexia Nervosa with significantly low body weight, binge -purge pattern refers to 
individuals who meet the definitional requirements of Anorexia Nervosa with 
significantly low body weight and who present with episodes of binge eating or 
purgi ng behaviours. These individuals induce weight loss and maintain low body 
weight through restricted food intake, commonly accompanied by significant purging 
behaviours aimed at getting rid of ingested food (e.g. self -induced vomiting, laxative 
abuse or ene mas). This pattern also includes individuals who exhibit binge eating 
episodes but do not purge.  
 
6B80.0Z  Anorexia Nervosa with significantly low body weight, unspecified  
 
6B80.1  Anorexia Nervosa with dangerously low body weight  
Anorexia Nervosa with dange rously low body weight meets all definitional 
requirements for Anorexia Nervosa, with BMI under 14.0 kg/m² in adults or under 
the 0.3rd percentile for BMI -for-age in children and adolescents. In the context of 
Anorexia Nervosa, severe underweight status is  an important prognostic factor that 
is associated with high risk of physical complications and substantially increased 
mortality.  
 
6B80.10  Anorexia Nervosa with dangerously low body weight, restricting pattern  
Anorexia Nervosa with dangerously low body we ight, restricting pattern refers to 
individuals who meet the definitional requirements of Anorexia Nervosa with 
dangerously low body weight and who induce weight loss and maintain low body 
weight through restricted food intake or fasting alone or in combin ation with 
increased energy expenditure (such as through excessive exercise) but who do not 
engage in binge eating or purging behaviours.  
 
6B80.11  Anorexia Nervosa with dangerously low body weight, binge -purge pattern  
Anorexia Nervosa with dangerously low body weight, binge -purge pattern refers to 
individuals who meet the definitional requirements of Anorexia Nervosa with 
dangerously low body weight and who present with episodes of binge eating or 
purging behaviours. These individuals induce weight loss and  maintain low body 
weight through restricted food intake, commonly accompanied by significant purging 
behaviours aimed at getting rid of ingested food (e.g. self -induced vomiting, laxative 
abuse or enemas). This pattern also includes individuals who exhibi t binge eating 
episodes but do not purge.  
 448  ICD-11 MMS  
 6B80.1Z  Anorexia Nervosa with dangerously low body weight, unspecified  
 
6B80.2  Anorexia Nervosa in recovery with normal body weight  
Among individuals who are recovering from Anorexia Nervosa and whose body 
weight is more than 18.5 kg/m2 for adults or over the fifth percentile for BMI -for-age 
for children and adolescents, the diagnosis should be retained until a full and lasting 
recovery is achieved, as indicated by the maintenance of a healthy weight and the 
cessat ion of behaviours aimed at reducing body weight independent of the provision 
of treatment (e.g., for at least 1 year after intensive treatment is withdrawn).  
 
6B80.Y  Other specified anorexia Nervosa  
 
6B80.Z  Anorexia Nervosa, unspecified  
 
  6B81   Bulimia N ervosa  
Bulimia Nervosa is characterised by frequent, recurrent episodes of binge eating 
(e.g. once a week or more over a period of at least one month). A binge eating 
episode is a distinct period of time during which the individual experiences a 
subjective  loss of control over eating, eating notably more or differently than usual, 
and feels unable to stop eating or limit the type or amount of food eaten. Binge 
eating is accompanied by repeated inappropriate compensatory behaviours aimed 
at preventing weight  gain (e.g. self -induced vomiting, misuse of laxatives or 
enemas, strenuous exercise). The individual is preoccupied with body shape or 
weight, which strongly influences self -evaluation. There is marked distress about 
the pattern of binge eating and inappr opriate compensatory behaviour or significant 
impairment in personal, family, social, educational, occupational or other important 
areas of functioning. The individual does not meet the diagnostic requirements of 
Anorexia Nervosa.  
Exclusions:  Binge eating disorder (6B82)  
 
  6B82   Binge eating disorder  
Binge eating disorder is characterised by frequent, recurrent episodes of binge 
eating (e.g. once a week or more over a period of several months). A binge eating 
episode is a distinct period of time during which the individual experiences a 
subjective loss  of control over eating, eating notably more or differently than usual, 
and feels unable to stop eating or limit the type or amount of food eaten. Binge 
eating is experienced as very distressing, and is often accompanied by negative 
emotions such as guilt or disgust. However, unlike in Bulimia Nervosa, binge eating 
episodes are not regularly followed by inappropriate compensatory behaviours 
aimed at preventing weight gain (e.g. self -induced vomiting, misuse of laxatives or 
enemas, strenuous exercise). There  is marked distress about the pattern of binge 
eating or significant impairment in personal, family, social, educational, occupational 
or other important areas of functioning.  
Exclusions:  Bulimia Nervosa (6B81)  
 ICD-11 MMS  449 
   6B83   Avoidant -restrictive food intake di sorder  
Avoidant -restrictive food intake disorder (ARFID) is characterised by avoidance or 
restriction of food intake that results in: 1) the intake of an insufficient quantity or 
variety of food to meet adequate energy or nutritional requirements that has 
resulted in significant weight loss, clinically significant nutritional deficiencies, 
dependence on oral nutritional supplements or tube feeding, or has otherwise 
negatively affected the physical health of the individual; or 2) significant impairment 
in pe rsonal, family, social, educational, occupational or other important areas of 
functioning (e.g., due to avoidance or distress related to participating in social 
experiences involving eating). The pattern of eating behaviour is not motivated by 
preoccupatio n with body weight or shape. Restricted food intake and its effects on 
weight, other aspects of health, or functioning are not due to unavailability of food, 
not a manifestation of another medical condition (e.g. food allergies, 
hyperthyroidism) or mental disorder, and are not due to the effect of a substance or 
medication on the central nervous system including withdrawal effects.  
Exclusions:  Anorexia Nervosa (6B80)  
Feeding problem of infant (MG43.30)  
Feeding problems of newborn (KD32)  
 
  6B84   Pica  
Pica is characterised by the regular consumption of non -nutritive substances, such 
as non -food objects and materials (e.g., clay, soil, chalk, plaster, plastic, metal and 
paper) or raw food ingredients (e.g ., large quantities of salt or corn flour) that is 
persistent or severe enough to require clinical attention in an individual who has 
reached a developmental age at which they would be expected to distinguish 
between edible and non -edible substances (appro ximately 2 years). That is, the 
behaviour causes damage to health, impairment in functioning, or significant risk 
due to the frequency, amount or nature of the substances or objects ingested.  
 
  6B85   Rumination -regurgitation disorder  
Rumination -regurgita tion disorder is characterised by the intentional and repeated 
bringing up of previously swallowed food back to the mouth (i.e., regurgitation), 
which may be re -chewed and re -swallowed (i.e. rumination), or may be deliberately 
spat out (but not as in vomit ing). The regurgitation behaviour is frequent (at least 
several times per week) and sustained over a period of at least several weeks. The 
regurgitation behaviour is not fully accounted for by another medical condition that 
directly causes regurgitation (e .g., oesophageal strictures or neuromuscular 
disorders affecting oesophageal functioning) or causes nausea or vomiting (e.g. 
pyloric stenosis). Rumination -regurgitation disorder should only be diagnosed in 
individuals who have reached a developmental age o f at least 2 years.  
Exclusions:  Adult rumination syndrome (DD90.6)  
Nausea or vomiting (MD90)  
 
  6B8Y   Other specified feeding or eating disorders  
 
  6B8Z   Feeding or eating disorders, unspecified  
 450  ICD-11 MMS  
 Elimination disorders (6C00 ‑6C0Z)  
Elimination disorders i nclude the repeated voiding of urine into clothes or bed (enuresis) and the 
repeated passage of faeces in inappropriate places (encopresis). Elimination disorders should only be 
diagnosed after the individual has reached a developmental age when continence  is ordinarily 
expected (5 years for enuresis and 4 years for encopresis). The urinary or faecal incontinence may 
have been present from birth (i.e., an atypical extension of normal infantile incontinence), or may have 
arisen following a period of acquired  bladder or bowel control. An Elimination disorder should not be 
diagnosed if the behaviour is fully attributable to another health condition that causes incontinence, 
congenital or acquired abnormalities of the urinary tract or bowel, or excessive use of laxatives or 
diuretics.  
  6C00   Enuresis  
Enuresis is the repeated voiding of urine into clothes or bed, which may occur 
during the day or at night, in an individual who has reached a developmental age 
when urinary continence is ordinarily expected (5 year s). The urinary incontinence 
may have been present from birth (i.e., an atypical extension of normal infantile 
incontinence), or may have arisen following a period of acquired bladder control. In 
most cases, the behaviour is involuntary but in some cases i t appears intentional. 
Enuresis should not be diagnosed if unintentional voiding of urine is due to a health 
condition that interferes with continence (e.g., diseases of the nervous system or 
musculoskeletal disorders) or by congenital or acquired abnormal ities of the urinary 
tract.  
Inclusions:  Functional enuresis  
Psychogenic enuresis  
Urinary incontinence of nonorganic origin  
Exclusions:  Stress incontinence (MF50.20)  
Urge Incontinence (MF50.21)  
Functional urinary incontinence (MF50.23)  
Overflow Incontinence (MF50.2)  
Reflex incontinence (MF50.24)  
Extraurethral urinary incontinence (MF50.2)  
 
6C00.0  Nocturnal enuresis  
Nocturnal enuresis refers to repeated voiding of urine into clothes or bed that oc curs 
only during sleep (i.e., during the night) in an individual who has reached a 
developmental age when urinary continence is ordinarily expected (5 years). The 
urinary incontinence may have been present from birth (i.e., an atypical extension of 
normal infantile incontinence), or may have arisen following a period of acquired 
bladder control. In most cases, the behaviour is involuntary but in some cases it 
appears intentional.  
 
6C00.1  Diurnal enuresis  
Diurnal enuresis refers to repeated voiding of urine into clothes that occurs only 
during waking hours in an individual who has reached a developmental age when 
urinary continence is ordinarily expected (5 years). The urinary incontinence may 
have been present from birth (i.e., an atypical extension of norma l infantile 
incontinence), or may have arisen following a period of acquired bladder control. In 
most cases, the behaviour is involuntary but in some cases it appears intentional.  
 ICD-11 MMS  451 
 6C00.2  Nocturnal and diurnal enuresis  
Nocturnal and diurnal enuresis refers  to repeated voiding of urine into clothes or 
bed that occurs both during sleep (i.e., during the night) and during waking hours in 
an individual who has reached a developmental age when urinary continence is 
ordinarily expected (5 years). The urinary inco ntinence may have been present from 
birth (i.e., an atypical extension of normal infantile incontinence), or may have 
arisen following a period of acquired bladder control. In most cases, the behaviour 
is involuntary but in some cases it appears intentiona l. 
 
6C00.Z  Enuresis, unspecified  
 
  6C01   Encopresis  
Encopresis is the repeated passage of faeces in inappropriate places. Encopresis 
should be diagnosed if inappropriate passage of faeces occurs repeatedly (e.g., at 
least once per month over a period of several months) in an individual who has 
reached the d evelopmental age when faecal continence is ordinarily expected (4 
years). The faecal incontinence may have been present from birth (i.e., an atypical 
extension of normal infantile incontinence), or may have arisen following a period of 
acquired bowel contr ol. Encopresis should not be diagnosed if faecal soiling is fully 
attributable to another health condition (e.g., aganglionic megacolon, spina bifida, 
dementia), congenital or acquired abnormalities of the bowel, gastrointestinal 
infection, or excessive us e of laxatives.  
 
6C01.0  Encopresis with constipation or overflow incontinence  
Encopresis is the repeated passage of faeces in inappropriate places occurring 
repeatedly (e.g., at least once per month over a period of several months) in an 
individual who has  reached the developmental age when faecal continence is 
ordinarily expected (4 years). The faecal incontinence may have been present from 
birth (i.e., an atypical extension of normal infantile incontinence), or may have 
arisen following a period of acquir ed bowel control. Encopresis with constipation 
and overflow incontinence is the most common form of faecal soiling, and involves 
retention and impaction of faeces. Stools are typically — but not always — poorly 
formed (loose or liquid) and leakage may rang e from occasional to continuous. 
There is often a history of toilet avoidance leading to constipation.  
 
6C01.1  Encopresis without constipation or overflow incontinence  
Encopresis is the repeated passage of faeces in inappropriate places occurring 
repeatedl y (e.g., at least once per month over a period of several months) in an 
individual who has reached the developmental age when faecal continence is 
ordinarily expected (4 years). The faecal incontinence may have been present from 
birth (i.e., an atypical ex tension of normal infantile incontinence), or may have 
arisen following a period of acquired bowel control. Encopresis without constipation 
and overflow is not associated with retention and impaction of faeces, but rather 
reflects reluctance, resistance or  failure to conform to social norms in defecating in 
acceptable places in the context of normal physiological control over defecation. 
Stools are typically of normal consistency and inappropriate defecation is likely to 
be intermittent.  
 
6C01.Z  Encopresis, unspecified  
 
  6C0Z   Elimination disorders, unspecified  
 452  ICD-11 MMS  
 Disorders of bodily distress or bodily experience (6C20 ‑6C2Z)  
Disorders of bodily distress and bodily experience are characterised by disturbances in the person’s 
experience of his or he r body. Bodily distress disorder involves bodily symptoms that the individual 
finds distressing and to which excessive attention is directed. Body integrity dysphoria involves a 
disturbance in the person’s experience of the body manifested by the persisten t desire to have a 
specific physical disability accompanied by persistent discomfort, or intense feelings of 
inappropriateness concerning current non -disabled body configuration.  
Exclusions:  Dissociative neurological symptom disorder (6B60)  
Concern about b ody appearance  (QD30‑QD3Z)  
  6C20   Bodily distress disorder  
Bodily distress disorder is characterised by the presence of bodily symptoms that 
are distressing to the individual and excessive attention directed toward the 
symptoms, which may be manifest by repeated contact with health care providers. If 
another health condition is causing or contributing to the symptoms, the degree of 
attention is clearly excessive in relation to its nature and progression. Excessive 
attention is not alleviated by appropriat e clinical examination and investigations and 
appropriate reassurance. Bodily symptoms are persistent, being present on most 
days for at least several months. Typically, bodily distress disorder involves multiple 
bodily symptoms that may vary over time. Oc casionally there is a single symptom —
usually pain or fatigue —that is associated with the other features of the disorder. 
The symptoms and associated distress and preoccupation have at least some 
impact on the individual’s functioning (e.g. strain in relati onships, less effective 
academic or occupational functioning, abandonment of specific leisure activities).  
Exclusions:  Tourette syndrome (8A05.00)  
Hair pulling disorder (6B25.0)  
Dissociative disorders  (6B60‑6B6Z)  
hair-plucking (6B25.0)  
Hypochondriasis (6B2 3) 
Body dysmorphic disorder (6B21)  
Excoriation disorder (6B25.1)  
Gender incongruence  (HA60‑HA6Z)  
Sexual dysfunctions  (HA00‑HA0Z)  
Tic disorders (8A05)  
Sexual pain -penetration disorder (HA20)  
Postviral fatigue syndrome (8E49)  
Chronic fatigue syndrome (8E49)  
Myalgic encephalomyelitis (8E49)  
 ICD-11 MMS  453 
 6C20.0  Mild bodily distress disorder  
All definitional requirements of bodily distress disorder are present. There is 
excessive attention to distressing symptoms and their consequences, which may 
result in frequent medical visits, but the person is not preoccupied with the 
symptoms (e.g., the individual spends less than an hour per day focusing on them). 
Although the individual expresses distress about the symptoms and they may have 
some impact on his or her life (e.g., strain in relationships, less effective academic 
or occupational functionin g, abandonment of specific leisure activities), there is no 
substantial impairment in the person’s personal, family, social, educational, 
occupational, or other important areas of functioning.  
 
6C20.1  Moderate bodily distress disorder  
All definitional requ irements of bodily distress disorder are present. There is 
persistent preoccupation with the distressing symptoms and their consequences 
(e.g., the individual spends more than an hour a day thinking about them), typically 
associated with frequent medical v isits. The person devotes much of his or her 
energy to focusing on the symptoms and their consequences. The symptoms and 
associated distress and preoccupation cause moderate impairment in personal, 
family, social, educational, occupational, or other import ant areas of functioning 
(e.g., relationship conflict, performance problems at work, abandonment of a range 
of social and leisure activities).  
 
6C20.2  Severe bodily distress disorder  
All definitional requirements of Bodily distress disorder are present. Th ere is 
pervasive and persistent preoccupation with the symptoms and their consequences 
to the extent that these may become the focal point of the person’s life, typically 
resulting in extensive interactions with the health care system. The symptoms and 
associated distress and preoccupation cause serious impairment in personal, 
family, social, educational, occupational, or other important areas of functioning 
(e.g., unable to work, alienation of friends and family, abandonment of nearly all 
social and leisur e activities). The person’s interests may become so narrow as to 
focus almost exclusively on his or her bodily symptoms and their negative 
consequences.  
 
6C20.Z  Bodily distress disorder, unspecified  
 
  6C21   Body integrity dysphoria  
Body integrity dysphoria is characterised by an intense and persistent desire to 
become physically disabled in a significant way (e.g. major limb amputee, 
paraplegic, blind), with onset by early adolescence accompanied by persisten t 
discomfort, or intense feelings of inappropriateness concerning current non -disabled 
body configuration. The desire to become physically disabled results in harmful 
consequences, as manifested by either the preoccupation with the desire (including 
time s pent pretending to be disabled) significantly interfering with productivity, with 
leisure activities, or with social functioning (e.g. person is unwilling to have a close 
relationship because it would make it difficult to pretend) or by attempts to actuall y 
become disabled having resulted in the person putting his or her health or life in 
significant jeopardy. The disturbance is not better accounted for by another mental, 
behavioural or neurodevelopmental disorder, by a Disease of the Nervous System 
or by a nother medical condition, or by Malingering.  
Exclusions:  Gender incongruence of adolescence or adulthood (HA60)  
 454  ICD-11 MMS  
   6C2Y   Other specified disorders of bodily distress or bodily experience  
 
  6C2Z   Disorders of bodily distress or bodily experience, unspeci fied  
 
Disorders due to substance use or addictive behaviours (6C40 ‑6C5Z)  
Disorders due to substance use and addictive behaviours are mental and behavioural disorders that 
develop as a result of the use of predominantly psychoactive substances, including me dications, or 
specific repetitive rewarding and reinforcing behaviours.  
Disorders due to substance use (6C40 ‑6C4Z)  
Disorders due to substance use include disorders that result from a single occasion or repeated use 
of substances that have psychoactive prop erties, including certain medications. Disorders related to 
fourteen classes or groups of psychoactive substances are included. Typically, initial use of these 
substances produces pleasant or appealing psychoactive effects that are rewarding and reinforcin g 
with repeated use. With continued use, many of the included substances have the capacity to 
produce dependence. They also have the potential to cause numerous forms of harm, both to mental 
and physical health. Disorders due to harmful non -medical use of non-psychoactive substances are 
also included in this grouping.  
Coded Elsewhere:  Catatonia induced by substances or medications (6A41)  
  6C40   Disorders due to use of alcohol  
Disorders due to use of alcohol are characterised by the pattern and consequence s 
of alcohol use. Alcohol —more specifically termed ethyl alcohol or ethanol —is an 
intoxicating compound produced by fermentation of sugars usually in agricultural 
products such as fruits, cereals, and vegetables with or without subsequent 
distillation. The re are a wide variety of alcoholic drinks, with alcohol concentrations 
typically ranging from 1.5% to 60%. Alcohol is predominantly a central nervous 
system depressant. In addition to ability to produce Alcohol Intoxication, alcohol has 
dependence -producin g properties, resulting in Alcohol Dependence in some people 
and Alcohol Withdrawal when alcohol use is reduced or discontinued. Unlike most 
other substances, elimination of alcohol from the body occurs at a constant rate, 
such that its clearance follows a  linear rather than a logarithmic course. Alcohol is 
implicated in a wide range of harms affecting most organs and systems of the body 
(e.g., cirrhosis of the liver, gastrointestinal cancers, pancreatitis). Harm to others 
resulting from behaviour during Al cohol Intoxication is well recognized and is 
included in the definitions of harmful use of alcohol (i.e., Episode of Harmful Use of 
Alcohol and Harmful Pattern of Use of Alcohol). Several alcohol -induced mental 
disorders (e.g., Alcohol -Induced Psychotic Di sorder) and alcohol -related forms of 
neurocognitive impairment (e.g., Dementia Due to Use of Alcohol) are recognized.  
Exclusions:  Hazardous alcohol use (QE10)  
 ICD-11 MMS  455 
 6C40.0  Episode of harmful use of alcohol  
An episode of use of alcohol that has caused damage to a person’s physical or 
mental health or has resulted in behaviour leading to harm to the health of others. 
Harm to health of the individual occurs due to one or more of the following: (1) 
behaviour rel ated to intoxication; (2) direct or secondary toxic effects on body 
organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of administration. Harm to health of 
others includes any form of physical harm, including trauma, or mental disorder that 
is directly attributabl e to behaviour due to alcohol intoxication on the part of the 
person to whom the diagnosis of single episode of harmful use applies. This 
diagnosis should not be made if the harm is attributed to a known pattern of alcohol 
use. 
Exclusions:  Harmful pattern of use of alcohol (6C40.1)  
Alcohol dependence (6C40.2)  
 
6C40.1  Harmful pattern of use of alcohol  
A pattern of alcohol use that has caused damage to a person’s physical or mental 
health or has resulted in behaviour leading to harm to the health of others. T he 
pattern of alcohol use is evident over a period of at least 12 months if substance 
use is episodic or at least one month if use is continuous. Harm to health of the 
individual occurs due to one or more of the following: (1) behaviour related to 
intoxica tion; (2) direct or secondary toxic effects on body organs and systems; or (3) 
a harmful route of administration. Harm to health of others includes any form of 
physical harm, including trauma, or mental disorder that is directly attributable to 
behaviour r elated to alcohol intoxication on the part of the person to whom the 
diagnosis of Harmful pattern of use of alcohol applies.  
Exclusions:  Alcohol dependence (6C40.2)  
Episode of harmful use of alcohol (6C40.0)  
 
6C40.10  Harmful pattern of use of alcohol, epis odic 
A pattern of episodic or intermittent alcohol use that has caused damage to a 
person’s physical or mental health or has resulted in behaviour leading to harm to 
the health of others. The pattern of episodic alcohol use is evident over a period of 
at least 12 months. Harm to health of the individual occurs due to one or more of 
the following: (1) behaviour related to intoxication; (2) direct or secondary toxic 
effects on body organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of administration. Harm 
to health o f others includes any form of physical harm, including trauma, or mental 
disorder that is directly attributable to behaviour related to alcohol intoxication on 
the part of the person to whom the diagnosis of Harmful pattern of use of alcohol 
applies.  
Exclu sions:  Episode of harmful use of alcohol (6C40.0)  
Alcohol dependence (6C40.2)  
 456  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C40.11  Harmful pattern of use of alcohol, continuous  
A pattern of continuous (daily or almost daily) alcohol use that has caused damage 
to a person’s physical or mental health or has resulted in behaviour leading to harm 
to the health of others. The pattern of continuous alcohol use is evident over a 
period of at least one month. Harm to health of the individual occurs due to one or 
more of the following: (1) behaviour related t o intoxication; (2) direct or secondary 
toxic effects on body organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of administration. 
Harm to health of others includes any form of physical harm, including trauma, or 
mental disorder that is directly attributable to b ehaviour related to alcohol 
intoxication on the part of the person to whom the diagnosis of Harmful pattern of 
use of alcohol applies.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of alcohol (6C40.0)  
Alcohol dependence (6C40.2)  
 
6C40.1Z  Harmful pattern of use of alcohol, unspecified  
 
6C40.2  Alcohol dependence  
Alcohol dependence is a disorder of regulation of alcohol use arising from repeated 
or continuous use of alcohol. The characteristic feature is a strong internal drive to 
use alcohol , which is manifested by impaired ability to control use, increasing 
priority given to use over other activities and persistence of use despite harm or 
negative consequences. These experiences are often accompanied by a subjective 
sensation of urge or crav ing to use alcohol. Physiological features of dependence 
may also be present, including tolerance to the effects of alcohol, withdrawal 
symptoms following cessation or reduction in use of alcohol, or repeated use of 
alcohol or pharmacologically similar sub stances to prevent or alleviate withdrawal 
symptoms. The features of dependence are usually evident over a period of at least 
12 months but the diagnosis may be made if alcohol use is continuous (daily or 
almost daily) for at least 3 months.  
Inclusions:  Chronic alcoholism  
Dipsomania  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of alcohol (6C40.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of alcohol (6C40.1)  
 
6C40.20  Alcohol dependence, current use, continuous  
Alcohol dependence with continuous consumption of alcohol (daily or almost daily) 
over a period of at least 1 month.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of alcohol (6C40.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of alcohol (6C40.1)  
 
6C40.21  Alcohol dependence, current use,  episodic  
During the past 12 months, there has been alcohol dependence with intermittent 
heavy drinking, with periods of abstinence from alcohol. If current use is continuous 
(daily or almost daily over at least the past 1 month), the diagnosis of Alcohol 
dependence, current use, continuous should be made instead.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of alcohol (6C40.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of alcohol (6C40.1)  
 ICD-11 MMS  457 
 6C40.22  Alcohol dependence, early full remission  
After a diagnosis of alcohol dependence, and oft en following a treatment episode or 
other intervention (including self -help intervention), the individual has been 
abstinent from alcohol during a period lasting between 1 and 12 months.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of alcohol (6C40.0)  
Harmful patter n of use of alcohol (6C40.1)  
 
6C40.23  Alcohol dependence, sustained partial remission  
After a diagnosis of alcohol dependence, and often following a treatment episode or 
other intervention (including self -help intervention), there is a significant reductio n in 
alcohol consumption for more than 12 months, such that even though intermittent or 
continuing drinking has occurred during this period, the definitional requirements for 
dependence have not been met.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of alcohol (6C40 .0) 
Harmful pattern of use of alcohol (6C40.1)  
 
6C40.24  Alcohol dependence, sustained full remission  
After a diagnosis of alcohol dependence, and often following a treatment episode or 
other intervention (including self -intervention), the person has been a bstinent from 
alcohol for 12 months or longer.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of alcohol (6C40.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of alcohol (6C40.1)  
 
6C40.2Z  Alcohol dependence, unspecified  
 
6C40.3  Alcohol intoxication  
Alcohol intoxication is a clinically significant transient condition that develops during 
or shortly after the consumption of alcohol that is characterised by disturbances in 
consciousness, cognition, perception, affect, behaviour, or coordination. These 
disturbances are caused by the known pharmacological effects of alcohol and their 
intensity is closely related to the amount of alcohol consumed. They are time -limited 
and abate as alcohol is cleared from the body. Presenting features may include 
impaired a ttention, inappropriate or aggressive behaviour, lability of mood and 
emotions, impaired judgment, poor coordination, unsteady gait, fine nystagmus and 
slurred speech. At more severe levels of intoxication, stupor or coma may occur. 
Alcohol intoxication ma y facilitate suicidal ideation or behaviour.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
Exclusions:  alcohol poisoning (NE61)  
Possession trance disorder (6B63)  
 458  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C40.4  Alcohol withdrawal  
Alcohol withdrawal is a clinically significant cluster of symptoms, behaviours and/or 
physiological features, varying in degree of severity and duration, that occurs upon 
cessation or reduction of use of alcohol in individuals who have developed Alcohol 
dependence or have used alcohol for a prolonged period or in large amounts. 
Presenting features of Alcohol withdrawal may include autonomic hyperactivity (e.g. 
tachycardia, hypertension, perspiration), increased hand tremor, nausea, retching or 
vomiting, ins omnia, anxiety, psychomotor agitation, depressed or dysphoric mood, 
transient visual, tactile or auditory illusions or hallucinations, and distractability. Less 
commonly, the withdrawal state is complicated by generalised tonic -clonic seizures. 
The withdra wal state may progress to a very severe form of delirium characterised 
by confusion and disorientation, delusions, and prolonged visual, tactile or auditory 
hallucinations. In such cases, a separate diagnosis of Alcohol -induced delirium 
should also be assi gned.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C40.40  Alcohol withdrawal, uncomplicated  
All diagnostic requirements for Alcohol Withdrawal are met and the withdrawal state 
is not accompanied by perceptual disturbances or seizures.  
Coding Note:  Code a lso the causing condition  
 
6C40.41  Alcohol withdrawal with perceptual disturbances  
All diagnostic requirements for Alcohol withdrawal are met and the withdrawal state 
is accompanied by perceptual disturbances (e.g., visual or tactile hallucinations or 
illusions) with intact reality testing. There is no evidence of confusion and other 
diagnostic requirements for Delirium are not met. The withdrawal state is not 
accompanied by seizures.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C40.42  Alcohol withdrawal with seizures  
All diagnostic requirements for Alcohol withdrawal are met and the withdrawal state 
is accompanied by seizures (i.e., generalised tonic -clonic seizures) but not by 
perceptual disturbances.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C40.43  Alcohol withdrawal with perceptual disturbances and seizures  
All diagnostic requirements for Alcohol withdrawal are met and the withdrawal state 
is accompanied by both seizures (i.e., generalised tonic -clonic seizures) and 
perceptual disturbances (e.g., v isual or tactile hallucinations or illusions) with intact 
reality testing. Diagnostic requirements for Delirium are not met.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C40.4Z  Alcohol withdrawal, unspecified  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 ICD-11 MMS  459 
 6C40.5  Alcohol -induced delirium  
Alcohol -induced delirium is characterised by an acute state of disturbed attention 
and awareness with specific features of delirium that develops during or soon after 
substance intoxication or withdrawal or during the use o f alcohol. The amount and 
duration of alcohol use must be capable of producing delirium. Specific features of 
alcohol -induced delirium may include impaired consciousness with disorientation, 
vivid hallucinations and illusions, insomnia, delusions, agitatio n, disturbances of 
attention, and accompanying tremor and physiological symptoms of alcohol 
withdrawal. In some cases of alcohol withdrawal, the withdrawal state may progress 
to a very severe form of Alcohol -induced delirium. The symptoms are not better 
explained by a primary mental disorder, by use of or withdrawal from a different 
substance, or by another health condition that is not classified under Mental, 
behavioural and neurodevelopmental disorders.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
Inclusi ons:  Delirium tremens (alcohol -induced)  
Delirium induced by alcohol withdrawal  
 
6C40.6  Alcohol -induced psychotic disorder  
Alcohol -induced psychotic disorder is characterised by psychotic symptoms (e.g. 
delusions, hallucinations, disorganised thinking, gros sly disorganised behaviour) 
that develop during or soon after intoxication with or withdrawal from alcohol. The 
intensity or duration of the symptoms is substantially in excess of psychotic -like 
disturbances of perception, cognition, or behaviour that are characteristic of Alcohol 
intoxication or Alcohol withdrawal. The amount and duration of alcohol use must be 
capable of producing psychotic symptoms. The symptoms are not better explained 
by a primary mental disorder (e.g. Schizophrenia, a Mood disorder wi th psychotic 
symptoms), as might be the case if the psychotic symptoms preceded the onset of 
the alcohol use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial period of time after 
cessation of the alcohol use or withdrawal, or if there is other evidence of a pre -
existing primary mental disorder with psychotic symptoms (e.g. a history of prior 
episodes not associated with alcohol use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C40.60  Alcohol -induced psychotic disorder with hallucinations  
Alcohol -induced psycho tic disorder with hallucinations is characterised by the 
presence of hallucinations that are judged to be the direct consequence of alcohol 
use. Neither delusions nor other psychotic symptoms are present. The symptoms 
do not occur exclusively during hypnog ogic or hypnopompic states, are not better 
accounted for by another mental and behavioural disorder (e.g., schizophrenia), and 
are not due to another disorder or disease classified elsewhere (e.g., epilepsies with 
visual symptoms).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 460  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C40.61  Alcohol -induced psychotic disorder with delusions  
Alcohol -induced psychotic disorder with delusions is characterised by the presence 
of delusions that are judged to be the direct consequence of alcohol use. Neither 
hallucinations nor other psychotic symptoms are present. The symptoms do not 
occur exclusively during hypnogogic or hypnopompic states, are not better 
accounted for by another mental and behavioural disorder (e.g., schizophrenia), and 
are not due to anothe r disorder or disease classified elsewhere (e.g., epilepsies with 
visual symptoms).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C40.62  Alcohol -induced psychotic disorder with mixed psychotic symptoms  
Alcohol -induced psychotic disorder with mixed psychot ic symptoms is characterised 
by the presence of multiple psychotic symptoms, primarily hallucinations and 
delusions, when these are judged to be the direct consequence of alcohol use. The 
symptoms do not occur exclusively during hypnogogic or hypnopompic s tates, are 
not better accounted for by another mental and behavioural disorder (e.g., 
schizophrenia), and are not due to another disorder or disease classified elsewhere 
(e.g., epilepsies with visual symptoms).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C40.6Z  Alcohol -induced psychotic disorder, unspecified  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C40.7  Certain specified alcohol -induced mental or behavioural disorders  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
Coded Elsewhere:  Amnestic disorder due to use of alcohol (6D72.10)  
Dementia due to use of alcohol (6D84.0)  
 
6C40.70  Alcohol -induced mood disorder  
Alcohol -induced mood disorder is characterised by mood symptoms (e.g., 
depressed or elevated mood, decreased engagement in plea surable activities, 
increased or decreased energy levels) that develop during or soon after intoxication 
with or withdrawal from alcohol. The intensity or duration of the symptoms is 
substantially in excess of mood disturbances that are characteristic of A lcohol 
intoxication or Alcohol withdrawal. The amount and duration of alcohol use must be 
capable of producing mood symptoms. The symptoms are not better explained by a 
primary mental disorder (e.g., a Depressive disorder, a Bipolar disorder, 
Schizoaffecti ve disorder), as might be the case if the mood symptoms preceded the 
onset of the alcohol use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial period of time 
after cessation of the alcohol use or withdrawal, or if there is other evidence of a 
pre-existing primar y mental disorder with mood symptoms (e.g., a history of prior 
episodes not associated with alcohol use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 ICD-11 MMS  461 
 6C40.71  Alcohol -induced anxiety disorder  
Alcohol -induced anxiety disorder is characterised by anxiety sy mptoms (e.g., 
apprehension or worry, fear, physiological symptoms of excessive autonomic 
arousal, avoidance behaviour) that develop during or soon after intoxication with or 
withdrawal from alcohol. The intensity or duration of the symptoms is substantiall y in 
excess of anxiety symptoms that are characteristic of Alcohol intoxication or Alcohol 
withdrawal. The amount and duration of alcohol use must be capable of producing 
anxiety symptoms. The symptoms are not better explained by a primary mental 
disorder (e.g., an Anxiety and Fear -Related Disorder, a Depressive Disorder with 
prominent anxiety symptoms), as might be the case if the anxiety symptoms 
preceded the onset of the alcohol use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial 
period of time after cessatio n of the alcohol use or withdrawal, or if there is other 
evidence of a pre -existing primary mental disorder with anxiety symptoms (e.g., a 
history of prior episodes not associated with alcohol use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C40.Y  Othe r specified disorders due to use of alcohol  
 
6C40.Z  Disorders due to use of alcohol, unspecified  
 
  6C41   Disorders due to use of cannabis  
Disorders due to use of cannabis are characterised by the pattern and 
consequences of cannabis use. Cannabis is the collective term for a range of 
psychoactive preparations of the cannabis plant, Cannabis sativa, and related 
species and hybrids. Cannabis contains cannabinoids, a class of diverse chemical 
compounds that act on endogenous cannabinoid receptors that modula te 
neurotransmitter release in the brain. The principal psychoactive cannabinoid is δ -9-
tetrahydrocannabinol (THC). Cannabis is typically smoked in the form of the 
flowering heads or leaves of the marijuana plant; tobacco is often mixed with 
cannabis when smoked. There are also cannabis oils that are prepared from these 
same sources. These preparations vary considerably in their THC potency. 
Cannabis has predominantly central nervous system depressant effects and 
produces a characteristic euphoria that may be part of the presenting features of 
Cannabis Intoxication, which may also include impairment in cognitive and 
psychomotor functioning. Cannabis has dependence -producing properties resulting 
in Cannabis Dependence in some people and Cannabis Withdrawal wh en use is 
reduced or discontinued. Cannabis is associated with a range of Cannabis -Induced 
Mental Disorders.  
Exclusions:  Disorders due to use of synthetic cannabinoids (6C42)  
Hazardous use of cannabis (QE11.1)  
 462  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C41.0  Episode of harmful use of cannabis  
An episode of use of cannabis that has caused damage to a person’s physical or 
mental health or has resulted in behaviour leading to harm to the health of others. 
Harm to health of the individual occurs due to one or more of the following: (1) 
behaviour relat ed to intoxication; (2) direct or secondary toxic effects on body 
organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of administration. Harm to health of 
others includes any form of physical harm, including trauma, or mental disorder that 
is directly attributable to behaviour due to cannabis intoxication on the part of the 
person to whom the diagnosis of single episode of harmful use applies. This 
diagnosis should not be made if the harm is attributed to a known pattern of 
cannabis use.  
Exclusions:  Cannabis depende nce (6C41.2)  
Harmful pattern of use of cannabis (6C41.1)  
 
6C41.1  Harmful pattern of use of cannabis  
A pattern of cannabis use that has caused damage to a person’s physical or mental 
health or has resulted in behaviour leading to harm to the health of others. The 
pattern of cannabis use is evident over a period of at least 12 months if substance 
use is ep isodic or at least one month if use is continuous (i.e., daily or almost daily). 
Harm to health of the individual occurs due to one or more of the following: (1) 
behaviour related to intoxication; (2) direct or secondary toxic effects on body 
organs and sy stems; or (3) a harmful route of administration. Harm to health of 
others includes any form of physical harm, including trauma, or mental disorder that 
is directly attributable to behaviour related to cannabis intoxication on the part of the 
person to whom  the diagnosis of Harmful pattern of use of cannabis applies.  
Exclusions:  Cannabis dependence (6C41.2)  
Episode of harmful use of cannabis (6C41.0)  
 
6C41.10  Harmful pattern of use of cannabis, episodic  
A pattern of episodic or intermittent cannabis use that has caused damage to a 
person’s physical or mental health or has resulted in behaviour leading to harm to 
the health of others. The pattern of episodic cannabis use is evident over a period of 
at leas t 12 months. Harm to health of the individual occurs due to one or more of 
the following: (1) behaviour related to intoxication; (2) direct or secondary toxic 
effects on body organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of administration. Harm 
to health of o thers includes any form of physical harm, including trauma, or mental 
disorder that is directly attributable to behaviour related to cannabis intoxication on 
the part of the person to whom the diagnosis of Harmful pattern of use of cannabis 
applies.  
Exclus ions:  Episode of harmful use of cannabis (6C41.0)  
Cannabis dependence (6C41.2)  
 ICD-11 MMS  463 
 6C41.11  Harmful pattern of use of cannabis, continuous  
A pattern of continuous (daily or almost daily) cannabis use that has caused 
damage to a person’s physical or mental heal th or has resulted in behaviour leading 
to harm to the health of others. The pattern of continuous cannabis use is evident 
over a period of at least one month. Harm to health of the individual occurs due to 
one or more of the following: (1) behaviour relat ed to intoxication; (2) direct or 
secondary toxic effects on body organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of 
administration. Harm to health of others includes any form of physical harm, 
including trauma, or mental disorder that is directly attributable to behaviour related 
to cannabis intoxication on the part of the person to whom the diagnosis of Harmful 
pattern of use of cannabis applies.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of cannabis (6C41.0)  
Cannabis dependence (6C41.2)  
 
6C41.1Z  Harmful pattern of us e of cannabis, unspecified  
 
6C41.2  Cannabis dependence  
Cannabis dependence is a disorder of regulation of cannabis use arising from 
repeated or continuous use of cannabis. The characteristic feature is a strong 
internal drive to use cannabis, which is mani fested by impaired ability to control use, 
increasing priority given to use over other activities and persistence of use despite 
harm or negative consequences. These experiences are often accompanied by a 
subjective sensation of urge or craving to use cann abis. Physiological features of 
dependence may also be present, including tolerance to the effects of cannabis, 
withdrawal symptoms following cessation or reduction in use of cannabis, or 
repeated use of cannabis or pharmacologically similar substances to prevent or 
alleviate withdrawal symptoms. The features of dependence are usually evident 
over a period of at least 12 months but the diagnosis may be made if cannabis use 
is continuous (daily or almost daily) for at least 3 months.  
Exclusions:  Episode of h armful use of cannabis (6C41.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of cannabis (6C41.1)  
 
6C41.20  Cannabis dependence, current use  
Current cannabis dependence with use of cannabis within the past month.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of cannabis (6C41.0)  
Harmful pa ttern of use of cannabis (6C41.1)  
 
6C41.21  Cannabis dependence, early full remission  
After a diagnosis of cannabis dependence, and often following a treatment episode 
or other intervention (including self -help intervention), the individual has been 
abstine nt from cannabis during a period lasting between 1 and 12 months.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of cannabis (6C41.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of cannabis (6C41.1)  
 464  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C41.22  Cannabis dependence, sustained partial remission  
After a diagnosis of cannabis dependence, and often following a treatment episode 
or other intervention (including self -help intervention), there is a significant reduction 
in cannabis consumption for more t han 12 months, such that even though cannabis 
use has occurred during this period, the definitional requirements for dependence 
have not been met.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of cannabis (6C41.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of cannabis (6C41.1)  
 
6C41.23  Cannabis dependence, sustained full remission  
After a diagnosis of cannabis dependence, and often following a treatment episode 
or other intervention (including self -intervention), the person has been abstinent 
from cannabis for 12 months or longer.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of cannabis (6C41 .0) 
Harmful pattern of use of cannabis (6C41.1)  
 
6C41.2Z  Cannabis dependence, unspecified  
 
6C41.3  Cannabis intoxication  
Cannabis intoxication is a clinically significant transient condition that develops 
during or shortly after the consumption of cannabis that is characterised by 
disturbances in consciousness, cognition, perception, affect, behaviour, or 
coordination. These disturbances are caused by the known pharmacological effects 
of cannabis and their intensity is closely related to the amount of cannab is 
consumed. They are time -limited and abate as cannabis is cleared from the body. 
Presenting features may include inappropriate euphoria, impaired attention, 
impaired judgment, perceptual alterations (such as the sensation of floating, altered 
perception of time), changes in sociability, increased appetite, anxiety, 
intensification of ordinary experiences, impaired short -term memory, and 
sluggishness. Physical signs include conjunctival injection (red or bloodshot eyes) 
and tachycardia.  
Coding Note:  Code a lso the causing condition  
Inclusions:  "Bad trips" due to cannabinoids  
Exclusions:  cannabinoid poisoning (NE60)  
Possession trance disorder (6B63)  
 
6C41.4  Cannabis withdrawal  
Cannabis withdrawal is a clinically significant cluster of symptoms, behaviours 
and/or physiological features, varying in degree of severity and duration, that occurs 
upon cessation or reduction of use of cannabis in individuals who have developed 
Cannabis dependence or have used cannabis for a prolonged period or in large 
amounts. Prese nting features of Cannabis withdrawal may include irritability, anger 
or aggressive behaviour, shakiness, insomnia, restlessness, anxiety, depressed or 
dysphoric mood, decreased appetite and weight loss, headache, sweating or chills, 
abdominal cramps and m uscle aches.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 ICD-11 MMS  465 
 6C41.5  Cannabis -induced delirium  
Cannabis -induced delirium is characterised by an acute state of disturbed attention 
and awareness with specific features of delirium that develops during or soon af ter 
substance intoxication or withdrawal or during the use of cannabis. The amount and 
duration of cannabis use must be capable of producing delirium. The symptoms are 
not better explained by a primary mental disorder, by use of or withdrawal from a 
differ ent substance, or by another health condition that is not classified under 
Mental, behavioural and neurodevelopmental disorders.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C41.6  Cannabis -induced psychotic disorder  
Cannabis -induced psychotic disorder is characterised by psychotic symptoms (e.g. 
delusions, hallucinations, disorganised thinking, grossly disorganised behaviour) 
that develop during or soon after intoxication with or withdrawal from cannabis. The 
intensit y or duration of the symptoms is substantially in excess of psychotic -like 
disturbances of perception, cognition, or behaviour that are characteristic of 
Cannabis intoxication or Cannabis withdrawal. The amount and duration of 
cannabis use must be capable of producing psychotic symptoms. The symptoms 
are not better explained by a primary mental disorder (e.g. Schizophrenia, a Mood 
disorder with psychotic symptoms), as might be the case if the psychotic symptoms 
preceded the onset of the cannabis use, if the  symptoms persist for a substantial 
period of time after cessation of the cannabis use or withdrawal, or if there is other 
evidence of a pre -existing primary mental disorder with psychotic symptoms (e.g. a 
history of prior episodes not associated with cann abis use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C41.7  Certain specified cannabis -induced mental or behavioural disorders  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C41.70  Cannabis -induced mood disorder  
Cannabis -induced mood disorder is charac terised by mood symptoms (e.g., 
depressed or elevated mood, decreased engagement in pleasurable activities, 
increased or decreased energy levels) that develop during or soon after intoxication 
with or withdrawal from cannabis. The intensity or duration of the symptoms is 
substantially in excess of mood disturbances that are characteristic of Cannabis 
intoxication or Cannabis withdrawal. The amount and duration of cannabis use must 
be capable of producing mood symptoms. The symptoms are not better explained 
by a primary mental disorder (e.g., a Depressive disorder, a Bipolar disorder, 
Schizoaffective disorder), as might be the case if the mood symptoms preceded the 
onset of the cannabis use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial period of time 
after cessa tion of the cannabis use or withdrawal, or if there is other evidence of a 
pre-existing primary mental disorder with mood symptoms (e.g., a history of prior 
episodes not associated with cannabis use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 466  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C41.71  Cannabis -induced anxiety disorder  
Cannabis -induced anxiety disorder is characterised by anxiety symptoms (e.g., 
apprehension or worry, fear, physiological symptoms of excessive autonomic 
arousal, avoidance behaviour) that develop during or soon after intoxi cation with or 
withdrawal from cannabis. The intensity or duration of the symptoms is substantially 
in excess of anxiety symptoms that are characteristic of Cannabis intoxication or 
Cannabis withdrawal. The amount and duration of cannabis use must be capab le of 
producing anxiety symptoms. The symptoms are not better explained by a primary 
mental disorder (e.g., an Anxiety and Fear -Related Disorder, a Depressive Disorder 
with prominent anxiety symptoms), as might be the case if the anxiety symptoms 
preceded the onset of the cannabis use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial 
period of time after cessation of the cannabis use or withdrawal, or if there is other 
evidence of a pre -existing primary mental disorder with anxiety symptoms (e.g., a 
history of pri or episodes not associated with cannabis use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C41.Y  Other specified disorders due to use of cannabis  
 
6C41.Z  Disorders due to use of cannabis, unspecified  
 
  6C42   Disorders due to use of synthetic cannabinoids  
Disorders due to use of synthetic cannabinoids are characterised by the pattern and 
consequences of synthetic cannabinoid use. Synthetic cannabinoids are 
synthesized diverse chemical compounds that are potent agonists for endogenous 
cannabinoid receptors. There are several hundred such compounds. The synthetic 
compound is typically sprayed onto a vehicle such as cannabis or tea leaves and 
then smoked. The effect of these compounds is distinctly different from s moking 
naturally cultivated cannabis in that the euphoric effects are typically accompanied 
or dominated by psychotic -like symptoms (e.g., paranoia, hallucinations, and 
disorganized behavior). Synthetic Cannabinoid Intoxication may therefore present 
more f requently with psychotic symptoms in addition to the more typical effects of 
cannabis. Synthetic cannabinoids are also dependence -producing and Synthetic 
Cannabinoid Dependence and Synthetic Cannabinoid Withdrawal are recognized. 
Synthetic Cannabinoid -Induced Mental Disorders also occur; in particular Synthetic 
Cannabinoid -Induced Psychotic Disorder is recognized.  
Exclusions:  Disorders due to use of cannabis (6C41)  
 
6C42.0  Episode of harmful use of synthetic cannabinoids  
An episode of use of a synthetic can nabinoid that has caused damage to a person’s 
physical or mental health or has resulted in behaviour leading to harm to the health 
of others. Harm to health of the individual occurs due to one or more of the 
following: (1) behaviour related to intoxication ; (2) direct or secondary toxic effects 
on body organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of administration. Harm to 
health of others includes any form of physical harm, including trauma, or mental 
disorder that is directly attributable to behaviour due t o synthetic cannabinoid 
intoxication on the part of the person to whom the diagnosis of single episode of 
harmful use applies. This diagnosis should not be made if the harm is attributed to a 
known pattern of synthetic cannabinoid use.  
Exclusions:  Harmful pattern of use of synthetic cannabinoids (6C42.1)  
Synthetic cannabinoid dependence (6C42.2)  
 ICD-11 MMS  467 
 6C42.1  Harmful pattern of use of synthetic cannabinoids  
A pattern of use of synthetic cannabinoids that has caused damage to a person’s 
physical or mental health or has resulted in behaviour leading to harm to the health 
of others. The pattern of synthetic cannabinoid use is evident over a period of at 
least 12  months if substance use is episodic or at least one month if use is 
continuous (i.e., daily or almost daily). Harm to health of the individual occurs due to 
one or more of the following: (1) behaviour related to intoxication; (2) direct or 
secondary toxic  effects on body organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of 
administration. Harm to health of others includes any form of physical harm, 
including trauma, or mental disorder that is directly attributable to behaviour related 
to synthetic cannabinoid int oxication on the part of the person to whom the 
diagnosis of Harmful pattern of use of synthetic cannabinoids applies.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of synthetic cannabinoids (6C42.0)  
Synthetic cannabinoid dependence (6C42.2)  
 
6C42.10  Harmful pattern of use of synthetic cannabinoids, episodic  
A pattern of episodic or intermittent use of synthetic cannabinoids that has caused 
damage to a person’s physical or mental health or has resulted in behaviour leading 
to harm to the health of others. The pattern of episodic synthetic cannabinoid use is 
evident over a period of at least 12 months. Harm to health of the individual occurs 
due to one or more of the following: (1) behaviour related to intoxication; (2) direct 
or secondary toxic effects on body organs a nd systems; or (3) a harmful route of 
administration. Harm to health of others includes any form of physical harm, 
including trauma, or mental disorder that is directly attributable to behaviour related 
to synthetic cannabinoid intoxication on the part of the person to whom the 
diagnosis of Harmful pattern of use of synthetic cannabinoids applies.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of synthetic cannabinoids (6C42.0)  
Synthetic cannabinoid dependence (6C42.2)  
 
6C42.11  Harmful pattern of use of synthetic canna binoids, continuous  
A pattern of continuous (daily or almost daily) use of synthetic cannabinoids that 
has caused damage to a person’s physical or mental health or has resulted in 
behaviour leading to harm to the health of others. The pattern of continuous  
synthetic cannabinoid use is evident over a period of at least one month. Harm to 
health of the individual occurs due to one or more of the following: (1) behaviour 
related to intoxication; (2) direct or secondary toxic effects on body organs and 
systems;  or (3) a harmful route of administration. Harm to health of others includes 
any form of physical harm, including trauma, or mental disorder that is directly 
attributable to behaviour related to synthetic cannabinoid intoxication on the part of 
the person to whom the diagnosis of Harmful pattern of use of synthetic 
cannabinoids applies.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of synthetic cannabinoids (6C42.0)  
Synthetic cannabinoid dependence (6C42.2)  
 
6C42.1Y  Other specified harmful pattern of use of synthetic cannabinoids  
 
6C42.1Z  Harmful pattern of use of synthetic cannabinoids, unspecified  
 468  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C42.2  Synthetic cannabinoid dependence  
Synthetic cannabinoid dependence is a disorder of regulation of synthetic 
cannabinoid use arising from repeated or continuous use o f synthetic cannabinoids. 
The characteristic feature is a strong internal drive to use synthetic cannabinoids, 
which is manifested by impaired ability to control use, increasing priority given to 
use over other activities and persistence of use despite har m or negative 
consequences. These experiences are often accompanied by a subjective 
sensation of urge or craving to use synthetic cannabinoids. Physiological features of 
dependence may also be present, including tolerance to the effects of synthetic 
cannab inoids, withdrawal symptoms following cessation or reduction in use of 
synthetic cannabinoids, or repeated use of synthetic cannabinoids or 
pharmacologically similar substances to prevent or alleviate withdrawal symptoms. 
The features of dependence are usu ally evident over a period of at least 12 months 
but the diagnosis may be made if synthetic cannabinoid use is continuous (daily or 
almost daily) for at least 3 months.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of synthetic cannabinoids (6C42.0)  
Harmful pattern o f use of synthetic cannabinoids (6C42.1)  
 
6C42.20  Synthetic cannabinoid dependence, current use  
Current synthetic cannabinoid dependence with use of synthetic cannabinoids 
within the past month.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of synthetic cannabinoids (6C42.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of synthetic cannabinoids (6C42.1)  
 
6C42.21  Synthetic cannabinoid dependence, early full remission  
After a diagnosis of synthetic cannabinoid dependence, and often following a 
treatment episode or other intervention (including self -help intervention), the 
individual has been abstinent from synthetic cannabinoid use during a period lasting 
between 1 and 12 months.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of synthetic cannabinoids (6C42.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of synthetic cannabinoids (6C42.1)  
 
6C42.22  Synthetic cannabinoid dependence, sustained partial remission  
After a diagnosis of synthetic cannabinoid dep endence, and often following a 
treatment episode or other intervention (including self -help intervention), there is a 
significant reduction in synthetic cannabinoid consumption for more than 12 months, 
such that even though synthetic cannabinoid use has oc curred during this period, 
the definitional requirements for dependence have not been met.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of synthetic cannabinoids (6C42.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of synthetic cannabinoids (6C42.1)  
 
6C42.23  Synthetic cannabinoid depend ence, sustained full remission  
After a diagnosis of synthetic cannabinoid dependence, and often following a 
treatment episode or other intervention (including self -intervention), the person has 
been abstinent from synthetic cannabinoid use for 12 months or  longer.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of synthetic cannabinoids (6C42.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of synthetic cannabinoids (6C42.1)  
 ICD-11 MMS  469 
 6C42.2Y  Other specified synthetic cannabinoid dependence  
 
6C42.2Z  Synthetic cannabinoid dependence, unspecified  
 
6C42. 3 Synthetic cannabinoid intoxication  
Synthetic cannabinoid intoxication is a clinically significant transient condition that 
develops during or shortly after the consumption of synthetic cannabinoids that is 
characterised by disturbances in consciousness, cognition, perception, affect, 
behaviour, or coordination. These disturbances are caused by the known 
pharmacological effects of synthetic cannabinoids and their intensity is closely 
related to the amount of synthetic cannabinoid consumed. They are time -limited and 
abate as synthetic cannabinoid is cleared from the body. Presenting features may 
include inappropriate euphoria, impaired attention, impaired judgment, perceptual 
alterations (such as the sensation of floating, altered perception of time), change s in 
sociability, increased appetite, anxiety, intensification of ordinary experiences, 
impaired short -term memory, and sluggishness. Physical signs include conjunctival 
injection (red or bloodshot eyes) and tachycardia. Intoxication with synthetic 
cannabi noids may also cause delirium or acute psychosis.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C42.4  Synthetic cannabinoid withdrawal  
Synthetic cannabinoid withdrawal is a clinically significant cluster of symptoms, 
behaviours and/or physiological featur es, varying in degree of severity and duration, 
that occurs upon cessation or reduction of use of synthetic cannabinoids in 
individuals who have developed Synthetic cannabinoid dependence or have used 
synthetic cannabinoids for a prolonged period or in lar ge amounts. Presenting 
features of Synthetic cannabinoid withdrawal may include irritability, anger, 
aggression, shakiness, insomnia and disturbing dreams, restlessness, anxiety, 
depressed mood and appetite disturbance. In the early phase, Synthetic 
cannab inoid withdrawal may be accompanied by residual features of intoxication 
from the drug, such as paranoid ideation and auditory and visual hallucinations.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C42.5  Synthetic cannabinoid -induced delirium  
Synthetic cannabinoid -induced delirium is characterised by an acute state of 
disturbed attention and awareness with specific features of delirium that develops 
during or soon after substance intoxication or withdrawal  or during the use of 
synthetic cannabinoids. The amount and duration of synthetic cannabinoid use must 
be capable of producing delirium. The symptoms are not better explained by a 
primary mental disorder, by use of or withdrawal from a different substance , or by 
another health condition that is not classified under Mental, behavioural and 
neurodevelopmental disorders.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 470  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C42.6  Synthetic cannabinoid -induced psychotic disorder  
Synthetic cannabinoid -induced psychoti c disorder is characterised by psychotic 
symptoms (e.g., delusions, hallucinations, disorganised thinking, grossly 
disorganised behaviour) that develop during or soon after intoxication with or 
withdrawal from synthetic cannabinoids. The intensity or durat ion of the symptoms 
is substantially in excess of psychotic -like disturbances of perception, cognition, or 
behaviour that are characteristic of Synthetic cannabinoid intoxication or Synthetic 
cannabinoid withdrawal. The amount and duration of synthetic can nabinoid use 
must be capable of producing psychotic symptoms. The symptoms are not better 
explained by a primary mental disorder (e.g., Schizophrenia, a Mood disorder with 
psychotic symptoms), as might be the case if the psychotic symptoms preceded the 
onset of the synthetic cannabinoid use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial 
period of time after cessation of the synthetic cannabinoid use or withdrawal, or if 
there is other evidence of a pre -existing primary mental disorder with psychotic 
symptoms (e .g., a history of prior episodes not associated with synthetic 
cannabinoid use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C42.7  Certain specified synthetic cannabinoids -induced mental or behavioural 
disorders  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condit ion 
 
6C42.70  Synthetic cannabinoid -induced mood disorder  
Synthetic cannabinoid -induced mood disorder is characterised by mood symptoms 
(e.g., depressed or elevated mood, decreased engagement in pleasurable activities, 
increased or decreased energy levels) that develop during or soon after intoxication 
with or withdrawal from synthetic cannabinoids. The intensity or duration of the 
symptoms is substantially in excess of mood disturbances that are characteristic of 
Synthetic cannabinoid intoxication or Synthe tic cannabinoid withdrawal. The amount 
and duration of synthetic cannabinoid use must be capable of producing mood 
symptoms. The symptoms are not better explained by a primary mental disorder 
(e.g., a Depressive disorder, a Bipolar disorder, Schizoaffectiv e disorder), as might 
be the case if the mood symptoms preceded the onset of the synthetic cannabinoid 
use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial period of time after cessation of the 
synthetic cannabinoid use or withdrawal, or if there is other eviden ce of a pre -
existing primary mental disorder with mood symptoms (e.g., a history of prior 
episodes not associated with synthetic cannabinoid use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 ICD-11 MMS  471 
 6C42.71  Synthetic cannabinoid -induced anxiety disorder  
Synthetic cannabinoid -induced anxiety disorder is characterised by anxiety 
symptoms (e.g., apprehension or worry, fear, physiological symptoms of excessive 
autonomic arousal, avoidance behaviour) that develop during or soon after 
intoxication with or withdrawal from synthetic cannabinoids. The intensity or duration 
of the symptoms is substantially in excess of anxiety symptoms that are 
characteristic of Synthetic cannabinoid intoxication or Synthetic cannabinoi d 
withdrawal. The amount and duration of synthetic cannabinoid use must be capable 
of producing anxiety symptoms. The symptoms are not better explained by a 
primary mental disorder (e.g., an Anxiety and Fear -Related Disorder, a Depressive 
Disorder with pro minent anxiety symptoms), as might be the case if the anxiety 
symptoms preceded the onset of the synthetic cannabinoid use, if the symptoms 
persist for a substantial period of time after cessation of the synthetic cannabinoid 
use or withdrawal, or if there  is other evidence of a pre -existing primary mental 
disorder with anxiety symptoms (e.g., a history of prior episodes not associated with 
synthetic cannabinoid use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C42.Y  Other specified disorders due to use of synthetic cannabinoids  
 
6C42.Z  Disorders due to use of synthetic cannabinoids, unspecified  
 
  6C43   Disorders due to use of opioids  
Disorders due to use of opioids are characterised by the pattern and consequences 
of opioid use. Opioids is a generic te rm that encompasses the constituents or 
derivatives of the opium poppy Papaver somniferum as well as a range of synthetic 
and semisynthetic compounds, some related to morphine and others chemically 
distinct but all having their primary actions on the µ opi oid receptor. Examples of 
opioids include morphine, diacetylmorphine (heroin), fentanyl, pethidine, 
oxycodone, hydromorphone, methadone, buprenorphine, codeine and d -
propoxyphene. The opioids all have analgesic properties of different potencies and 
are pri marily central nervous system depressants. They suppress respiration as well 
as other vital functions and are a common cause of overdose and related deaths. 
Certain opioids are used or administered parenterally, including heroin, a common 
and potent opioid  that is primarily used non -medically. Therapeutic opioids are 
prescribed for a range of indications worldwide, and are essential for pain 
management in cancer pain and palliative care, although they are also used for 
non-therapeutic reasons. In some count ries morbidity and mortality related to 
therapeutic opioids is greater than that related to heroin. All opioids may result in 
Opioid Intoxication, Opioid Dependence and Opioid Withdrawal. A range of Opioid -
Induced Disorders occur, some of which occur follo wing Opioid Withdrawal.  
Exclusions:  Hazardous use of opioids (QE11.0)  
 472  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C43.0  Episode of harmful use of opioids  
An episode of opioid use that has caused damage to a person’s physical or mental 
health or has resulted in behaviour leading to harm to the health of others. Harm to 
health of the individual occurs due to one or more of the following: (1) behaviour 
related  to intoxication; (2) direct or secondary toxic effects on body organs and 
systems; or (3) a harmful route of administration. Harm to health of others includes 
any form of physical harm, including trauma, or mental disorder that is directly 
attributable to  behaviour due to opioid intoxication on the part of the person to 
whom the diagnosis of single episode of harmful use applies. This diagnosis should 
not be made if the harm is attributed to a known pattern of opioid use.  
Exclusions:  Harmful pattern of use  of opioids (6C43.1)  
Opioid dependence (6C43.2)  
 
6C43.1  Harmful pattern of use of opioids  
A pattern of use of opioids that has caused damage to a person’s physical or mental 
health or has resulted in behaviour leading to harm to the health of others. The 
pattern of opioid use is evident over a period of at least 12 months if substance use 
is episodic or at least one month if use is continuous (i.e., daily or almost daily). 
Harm to health of the individual occurs due to one or more of the following: (1) 
beha viour related to intoxication; (2) direct or secondary toxic effects on body 
organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of administration. Harm to health of 
others includes any form of physical harm, including trauma, or mental disorder that 
is directly at tributable to behaviour related to opioid intoxication on the part of the 
person to whom the diagnosis of Harmful pattern of use of opioids applies.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of opioids (6C43.0)  
Opioid dependence (6C43.2)  
 
6C43.10  Harmful pattern of use of opioids, episodic  
A pattern of episodic or intermittent use of opioids that has caused damage to a 
person’s physical or mental health or has resulted in behaviour leading to harm to 
the health of others. The pattern of episodic opioid use is evid ent over a period of at 
least 12 months. Harm to health of the individual occurs due to one or more of the 
following: (1) behaviour related to intoxication; (2) direct or secondary toxic effects 
on body organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of adminis tration. Harm to 
health of others includes any form of physical harm, including trauma, or mental 
disorder that is directly attributable to behaviour related to opioid intoxication on the 
part of the person to whom the diagnosis of Harmful pattern of use o f opioids 
applies.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of opioids (6C43.0)  
Opioid dependence (6C43.2)  
 ICD-11 MMS  473 
 6C43.11  Harmful pattern of use of opioids, continuous  
A pattern of continuous (daily or almost daily) use of opioids that has caused 
damage to a person’s physical or mental health or has resulted in behaviour leading 
to harm to the health of others. The pattern of continuous opioid use is evident over 
a period of at least one month. Harm to health of the individual occurs due to one or 
more of the following : (1) behaviour related to intoxication; (2) direct or secondary 
toxic effects on body organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of administration. 
Harm to health of others includes any form of physical harm, including trauma, or 
mental disorder that is d irectly attributable to behaviour related to opioid intoxication 
on the part of the person to whom the diagnosis of Harmful pattern of use of opioids 
applies.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of opioids (6C43.0)  
Opioid dependence (6C43.2)  
 
6C43.1Z  Harmfu l pattern of use of opioids, unspecified  
 
6C43.2  Opioid dependence  
Opioid dependence is a disorder of regulation of opioid use arising from repeated or 
continuous use of opioids. The characteristic feature is a strong internal drive to use 
opioids, which i s manifested by impaired ability to control use, increasing priority 
given to use over other activities and persistence of use despite harm or negative 
consequences. These experiences are often accompanied by a subjective 
sensation of urge or craving to us e opioids. Physiological features of dependence 
may also be present, including tolerance to the effects of opioids, withdrawal 
symptoms following cessation or reduction in use of opioids, or repeated use of 
opioids or pharmacologically similar substances t o prevent or alleviate withdrawal 
symptoms. The features of dependence are usually evident over a period of at least 
12 months but the diagnosis may be made if opioid use is continuous (daily or 
almost daily) for at least 3 months.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of opioids (6C43.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of opioids (6C43.1)  
 
6C43.20  Opioid dependence, current use  
Opioid dependence, with use of an opioid within the past month.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of opioids (6C43.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of opioids (6C43.1)  
 
6C43.21  Opioid dependence, early full remission  
After a diagnosis of opioid dependence, and often following a treatment episode or 
other intervention (including self -help intervention), the individual has been 
abstinent from opioid use during a period lasting between 1 and 12 months.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of opioids (6C43.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of opioids (6C43.1)  
 474  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C43.22  Opioid dependence, sustained part ial remission  
After a diagnosis of Opioid dependence, and often following a treatment episode or 
other intervention (including self -help intervention), there is a significant reduction in 
opioid consumption for more than 12 months, such that even though op ioid use has 
occurred during this period, the definitional requirements for dependence have not 
been met.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of opioids (6C43.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of opioids (6C43.1)  
 
6C43.23  Opioid dependence, sustained full remission  
After a diagnosis of Opioid dependence, and often following a treatment episode or 
other intervention (including self -intervention), the person has been abstinent from 
opioids for 12 months or longer.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of opioids (6C43.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of opioids (6C43.1)  
 
6C43.2Z  Opioid dependence, unspecified  
 
6C43.3  Opioid intoxication  
Opioid intoxication is a clinically significant transient condition that develops during 
or shortly after the consumption of opioids that is cha racterised by disturbances in 
consciousness, cognition, perception, affect, behaviour, or coordination. These 
disturbances are caused by the known pharmacological effects of opioids and their 
intensity is closely related to the amount of opioids consumed. They are time -limited 
and abate as opioids are cleared from the body. Presenting features may include 
somnolence, stupor, mood changes (e.g. euphoria followed by apathy and 
dysphoria), psychomotor retardation, impaired judgment, respiratory depression, 
slurred speech, and impairment of memory and attention. In severe intoxication 
coma may ensue. A characteristic physical sign is pupillary constriction but this sign 
may be absent when intoxication is due to synthetic opioids. Severe opioid 
intoxication can l ead to death due to respiratory depression.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
Exclusions:  opioid poisoning (NE60)  
Possession trance disorder (6B63)  
fentanyl poisoning (NE60)  
oxycodone poisoning (NE60)  
 ICD-11 MMS  475 
 6C43.4  Opioid withdrawal  
Opioid withdrawal is a clinically significant cluster of symptoms, behaviours and/or 
physiological features, varying in degree of severity and duration, that occurs upon 
cessation or reduction of use of opioids in individuals who have developed Opioid 
depe ndence or have used opioids for a prolonged period or in large amounts. 
Opioid withdrawal can also occur when prescribed opioids have been used in 
standard therapeutic doses. Presenting features of Opioid withdrawal may include 
dysphoric mood, craving for an opioid, anxiety, nausea or vomiting, abdominal 
cramps, muscle aches, yawning, perspiration, hot and cold flushes, lacrimation, 
rhinorrhea, hypersomnia (typically in the initial phase) or insomnia, diarrhea, 
piloerection, and pupillary dilatation.  
Coding  Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C43.5  Opioid -induced delirium  
Opioid -induced delirium is characterised by an acute state of disturbed attention 
and awareness with specific features of delirium that develops during or soon after 
substance intoxicat ion or withdrawal or during the use of opioids. The amount and 
duration of opioid use must be capable of producing delirium. The symptoms are 
not better explained by a primary mental disorder, by use of or withdrawal from a 
different substance, or by anoth er health condition that is not classified under 
Mental, Behavioural, and Neurodevelopmental Disorders.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
Inclusions:  Delirium induced by opioid withdrawal  
 
6C43.6  Opioid -induced psychotic disorder  
Opioid -induced psychotic disorder is characterised by psychotic symptoms (e.g. 
delusions, hallucinations, disorganised thinking, grossly disorganised behaviour) 
that develop during or soon after intoxication with or withdr awal from opioids. The 
intensity or duration of the symptoms is substantially in excess of psychotic -like 
disturbances of perception, cognition, or behaviour that are characteristic of Opioid 
intoxication or Opioid withdrawal. The amount and duration of op ioid use must be 
capable of producing psychotic symptoms. The symptoms are not better explained 
by a primary mental disorder (e.g. Schizophrenia, a Mood disorder with psychotic 
symptoms), as might be the case if the psychotic symptoms preceded the onset of  
the opioid use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial period of time after 
cessation of the opioid use or withdrawal, or if there is other evidence of a pre -
existing primary mental disorder with psychotic symptoms (e.g. a history of prior 
episodes not  associated with opioid use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C43.7  Certain specified opioid -induced mental or behavioural disorders  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 476  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C43.70  Opioid -induced mood disorder  
Opioid -induced mood disor der is characterised by mood symptoms (e.g., depressed 
or elevated mood, decreased engagement in pleasurable activities, increased or 
decreased energy levels) that develop during or soon after intoxication with or 
withdrawal from opioids. The intensity or duration of the symptoms is substantially in 
excess of mood disturbances that are characteristic of Opioid intoxication or Opioid 
withdrawal. The amount and duration of opioid use must be capable of producing 
mood symptoms. The symptoms are not better expl ained by a primary mental 
disorder (e.g., a Depressive disorder, a Bipolar disorder, Schizoaffective disorder), 
as might be the case if the mood symptoms preceded the onset of the opioid use, if 
the symptoms persist for a substantial period of time after c essation of the opioid 
use or withdrawal, or if there is other evidence of a pre -existing primary mental 
disorder with mood symptoms (e.g., a history of prior episodes not associated with 
opioid use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C43.71  Opioid -induced anxiety disorder  
Opioid -induced anxiety disorder is characterised by anxiety symptoms (e.g., 
apprehension or worry, fear, physiological symptoms of excessive autonomic 
arousal, avoidance behaviour) that develop during or soon after intoxicati on with or 
withdrawal from opioids. The intensity or duration of the symptoms is substantially in 
excess of anxiety symptoms that are characteristic of Opioid intoxication or Opioid 
withdrawal. The amount and duration of opioid use must be capable of produ cing 
anxiety symptoms. The symptoms are not better explained by a primary mental 
disorder (e.g., an Anxiety and Fear -Related Disorder, a Depressive Disorder with 
prominent anxiety symptoms), as might be the case if the anxiety symptoms 
preceded the onset o f the opioid use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial 
period of time after cessation of the opioid use or withdrawal, or if there is other 
evidence of a pre -existing primary mental disorder with anxiety symptoms (e.g., a 
history of prior episodes not  associated with opioid use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C43.Y  Other specified disorders due to use of opioids  
 
6C43.Z  Disorders due to use of opioids, unspecified  
 
  6C44   Disorders due to use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics  
Disorders due to use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics are characterised by the 
pattern and consequences of use of these substances. Sedatives, hypnotics, and 
anxiolytics are typically prescr ibed for the short -term treatment of anxiety or 
insomnia and are also employed to provide sedation for medical procedures. They 
include the benzodiazepines and the non -benzodiazepine positive allosteric 
modulators of GABA receptors (i.e., ‘Z -drugs’) as wel l as many other compounds. 
Sedatives, hypnotics, and anxiolytics include barbiturates, which are available much 
less commonly now than in previous decades. Sedatives, hypnotics, and anxiolytics 
have dependence -inducing properties that are related to the do se and duration of 
their use. They may cause intoxication, dependence and withdrawal. Several other 
mental disorders induced by sedatives, hypnotics, or anxiolytics are recognized.  
Exclusions:  Hazardous use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics (QE11.2)  
 ICD-11 MMS  477 
 6C44.0  Episode of harmful use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics  
An episode of use of a sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic that has caused damage to a 
person’s physical or mental health or has resulted in behaviour leading to harm to 
the health of others . Harm to health of the individual occurs due to one or more of 
the following: (1) behaviour related to intoxication; (2) direct or secondary toxic 
effects on body organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of administration. Harm 
to health of others inclu des any form of physical harm, including trauma, or mental 
disorder that is directly attributable to behaviour due to sedative, hypnotic or 
anxiolytic intoxication on the part of the person to whom the diagnosis of single 
episode of harmful use applies. Th is diagnosis should not be made if the harm is 
attributed to a known pattern of sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic use.  
Exclusions:  Sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic dependence (6C44.2)  
Harmful pattern of use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics 
(6C44.1)  
 
6C44.1  Harmful pattern of use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics  
A pattern of sedative, hypnotic, or anxiolytic use that has caused clinically 
significant harm to a person’s physical or mental health or in which behaviour 
induced by sedatives, hypnotics  or anxiolytics has caused clinically significant harm 
to the health of other people. The pattern of sedative, hypnotic, or anxiolytic use is 
evident over a period of at least 12 months if use is episodic and at least one month 
if use is continuous (i.e., daily or almost daily). Harm may be caused by the 
intoxicating effects of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics, the direct or secondary 
toxic effects on body organs and systems, or a harmful route of administration.  
Exclusions:  Sedative, hypnotic or anxioly tic dependence (6C44.2)  
Episode of harmful use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics 
(6C44.0)  
 
6C44.10  Harmful pattern of use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics, episodic  
A pattern of episodic or intermittent use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics  that 
has caused clinically significant harm to a person’s physical or mental health or in 
which behaviour induced by sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics has caused clinically 
significant harm to the health of other people. The pattern of episodic or inter mittent 
use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics is evident over a period of at least 12 
months. Harm may be caused by the intoxicating effects of sedatives, hypnotics or 
anxiolytics, the direct or secondary toxic effects on body organs and systems, or a  
harmful route of administration.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics 
(6C44.0)  
Sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic dependence (6C44.2)  
 478  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C44.11  Harmful pattern of use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics, continuous  
A pattern of continuous use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics (daily or almost 
daily) that has caused clinically significant harm to a person’s physical or mental 
health or in w hich behaviour induced by sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics has 
caused clinically significant harm to the health of other people. The pattern of 
continuous use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics is evident over a period of at 
least one month. Harm ma y be caused by the intoxicating effects of sedatives, 
hypnotics or anxiolytics, the direct or secondary toxic effects on body organs and 
systems, or a harmful route of administration.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytic s 
(6C44.0)  
Sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic dependence (6C44.2)  
 
6C44.1Z  Harmful pattern of use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics, unspecified  
 
6C44.2  Sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic dependence  
Sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic dependence is a disorde r of regulation of sedative 
use arising from repeated or continuous use of these substances. The characteristic 
feature is a strong internal drive to use sedatives, hypnotics, or anxiolytics, which is 
manifested by impaired ability to control use, increasi ng priority given to use over 
other activities and persistence of use despite harm or negative consequences. 
These experiences are often accompanied by a subjective sensation of urge or 
craving to use these substances. Physiological features of dependence may also be 
present, including tolerance to the effects of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics, 
withdrawal symptoms following cessation or reduction in use, or repeated use of 
sedatives or pharmacologically similar substances to prevent or alleviate withdr awal 
symptoms. The features of dependence are usually evident over a period of at least 
12 months but the diagnosis may be made if sedative use is continuous (daily or 
almost daily) for at least 3 months.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics 
(6C44.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics 
(6C44.1)  
 
6C44.20  Sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic dependence, current use  
Current Sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic depende nce with use of a sedative, 
hypnotic or anxiolytic drug within the past month.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics 
(6C44.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics 
(6C44.1)  
 ICD-11 MMS  479 
 6C44.21  Sedative, hypn otic or anxiolytic dependence, early full remission  
After a diagnosis of Sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic dependence, and often 
following a treatment episode or other intervention (including self -help intervention), 
the individual has been abstinent from s edatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics during a 
period lasting between 1 and 12 months.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics 
(6C44.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics 
(6C44.1)  
 
6C44.22  Sedative,  hypnotic or anxiolytic dependence, sustained partial remission  
After a diagnosis of Sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic dependence, and often 
following a treatment episode or other intervention (including self -help intervention), 
there is a significant reduc tion in sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic consumption for 
more than 12 months, such that even though sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic use 
has occurred during this period, the definitional requirements for dependence have 
not been met.  
Exclusions:  Episode of  harmful use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics 
(6C44.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics 
(6C44.1)  
 
6C44.23  Sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic dependence, sustained full remission  
After a diagnosis of sedative, hypnotic or an xiolytic dependence, and often following 
a treatment episode or other intervention (including self -intervention), the person 
has been abstinent from sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic for 12 months or longer.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics 
(6C44.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics 
(6C44.1)  
 
6C44.2Z  Sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic dependence, unspecified  
 480  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C44.3  Sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic intoxication  
Sedative, hypnotic or anxiolyti c intoxication is a clinically significant transient 
condition that develops during or shortly after the consumption of sedatives, 
hypnotics or anxiolytics that is characterised by disturbances in consciousness, 
cognition, perception, affect, behaviour, or  coordination. These disturbances are 
caused by the known pharmacological effects of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics 
and their intensity is closely related to the amount of sedatives, hypnotics or 
anxiolytics consumed. They are time -limited and abate a s sedatives, hypnotics or 
anxiolytics are cleared from the body. Presenting features may include somnolence, 
impaired judgment, inappropriate behavior (including sexual behavior or 
aggression), slurred speech, impaired motor coordination, unsteady gait, mo od 
changes, as well as impaired memory, attention and concentration. Nystagmus 
(repetitive, uncontrolled eye movements) is a common physical sign. In severe 
cases stupor or coma may occur.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
Inclusions:  "Bad trips" due to sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics  
Exclusions:  sedative, hypnotic drugs and other CNS depressants 
poisoning (NE60)  
Possession trance disorder (6B63)  
 
6C44.4  Sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic withdrawal  
Sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic wi thdrawal is a clinically significant cluster of 
symptoms, behaviours and/or physiological features, varying in degree of severity 
and duration, that occurs upon cessation or reduction of use of sedatives, hypnotics 
or anxiolytics in individuals who have de veloped dependence or have used 
sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics for a prolonged period or in large amounts. 
Sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic withdrawal can also occur when prescribed 
sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics have been used in standard therap eutic doses. 
Presenting features of Sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic withdrawal may include 
anxiety, psychomotor agitation, insomnia, increased hand tremor, nausea or 
vomiting, and transient visual, tactile or auditory illusions or hallucinations. There 
may be signs of autonomic hyperactivity (e.g., tachycardia, hypertension, sweating), 
or postural hypotension. The withdrawal state may be complicated by seizures. 
Less commonly, there may be progression to a more severe withdrawal state 
characterised by conf usion and disorientation, delusions, and more prolonged 
visual, tactile or auditory hallucinations. In such cases, a separate diagnosis of 
Sedative, hypnotic, or anxiolytic -induced delirium should be assigned.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C44.40  Sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic withdrawal, uncomplicated  
All diagnostic requirements for Sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic withdrawal are met 
and the withdrawal state is not accompanied by perceptual disturbances or 
seizures.  
Coding Note:  Code als o the causing condition  
 ICD-11 MMS  481 
 6C44.41  Sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic withdrawal, with perceptual disturbances  
All diagnostic requirements for Sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic withdrawal are met 
and the withdrawal state is accompanied by perceptual disturbance s (e.g., visual or 
tactile hallucinations or illusions) with intact reality testing. There is no evidence of 
confusion and other diagnostic requirements for Delirium are not met. The 
withdrawal state is not accompanied by seizures.  
Coding Note:  Code also t he causing condition  
 
6C44.42  Sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic withdrawal, with seizures  
All diagnostic requirements for Sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic withdrawal are met 
and the withdrawal state is accompanied by seizures (i.e., generalised tonic -clonic  
seizures) but not by perceptual disturbances.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C44.43  Sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic withdrawal, with perceptual disturbances and 
seizures  
All diagnostic requirements for Sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic wit hdrawal are met 
and the withdrawal state is accompanied by both seizures (i.e., generalised tonic -
clonic seizures) and perceptual disturbances (e.g., visual or tactile hallucinations or 
illusions) with intact reality testing. Diagnostic requirements for De lirium are not met.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C44.4Z  Sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic withdrawal, unspecified  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C44.5  Sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic -induced delirium  
Sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic -induced delirium is characterised by an acute state 
of disturbed attention and awareness with specific features of delirium that develops 
during or soon after substance intoxication or withdrawal or during the use of 
sedati ves, hypnotics, or anxiolytics. Specific features of Sedative, hypnotic or 
anxiolytic -induced delirium may include confusion and disorientation, paranoid 
delusions, and recurrent visual, tactile or auditory hallucinations. The amount and 
duration of sedati ve, hypnotic, or anxiolytic use must be capable of producing 
delirium. The symptoms are not better explained by a primary mental disorder, by 
use of or withdrawal from a different substance, or by another health condition that 
is not classified under Menta l, behavioural and neurodevelopmental disorders.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
Inclusions:  Delirium induced by sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic withdrawal  
 482  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C44.6  Sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic -induced psychotic disorder  
Sedative, hypnotic  or anxiolytic -induced psychotic disorder is characterised by 
psychotic symptoms (e.g. delusions, hallucinations, disorganised thinking, grossly 
disorganised behaviour) that develop during or soon after intoxication with or 
withdrawal from sedatives, hypno tics or anxiolytics. The intensity or duration of the 
symptoms is substantially in excess of psychotic -like disturbances of perception, 
cognition, or behaviour that are characteristic of intoxication or withdrawal due to 
sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics . The amount and duration of sedative, hypnotic 
or anxiolytic use must be capable of producing psychotic symptoms. The symptoms 
are not better explained by a primary mental disorder (e.g. Schizophrenia, a Mood 
disorder with psychotic symptoms), as might be  the case if the psychotic symptoms 
preceded the onset of the sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic use, if the symptoms 
persist for a substantial period of time after cessation of the sedative, hypnotic or 
anxiolytic use or withdrawal, or if there is other evi dence of a pre -existing primary 
mental disorder with psychotic symptoms (e.g. a history of prior episodes not 
associated with sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C44.7  Certain specified sedatives, hypnotics  or anxiolytic -induced mental or 
behavioural disorders  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
Coded Elsewhere:  Amnestic disorder due to use of sedatives, hypnotics or 
anxiolytics (6D72.11)  
Dementia due to use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics 
(6D84.1)  
 
6C44.70  Sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic -induced mood disorder  
Sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic -induced mood disorder is characterised by mood 
symptoms (e.g., depressed or elevated mood, decreased engagement in 
pleasurable activities, increased or decreased energy levels) that develop during or 
soon after intoxication with or withdrawal from sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics. 
The intensity or duration of the symptoms is substantially in excess of mood 
disturbances that are characteristic of intoxication or withdrawal due to sedatives, 
hypnotics or anxiolytics. The amount and duration of sedative, hypnotic or anx iolytic 
use must be capable of producing mood symptoms. The symptoms are not better 
explained by a primary mental disorder (e.g., a Depressive disorder, a Bipolar 
disorder, Schizoaffective disorder), as might be the case if the mood symptoms 
preceded the o nset of the sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic use, if the symptoms 
persist for a substantial period of time after cessation of the sedative, hypnotic or 
anxiolytic use or withdrawal, or if there is other evidence of a pre -existing primary 
mental disorder wi th mood symptoms (e.g., a history of prior episodes not 
associated with sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 ICD-11 MMS  483 
 6C44.71  Sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic -induced anxiety disorder  
Sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic -induced anxiety disorder is characterised by anxiety 
symptoms (e.g., apprehension or worry, fear, physiological symptoms of excessive 
autonomic arousal, avoidance behaviour) that develop during or soon after 
intoxication with or withdrawal from sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics. The intensity 
or duration of the symptoms is substantially in excess of anxiety symptoms that are 
characteristic of intoxication or withdrawal due to sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics. 
The amount and duration of sedative, hypnot ic or anxiolytic use must be capable of 
producing anxiety symptoms. The symptoms are not better explained by a primary 
mental disorder (e.g., an Anxiety and Fear -Related Disorder, a Depressive Disorder 
with prominent anxiety symptoms), as might be the case  if the anxiety symptoms 
preceded the onset of the sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic use, if the symptoms 
persist for a substantial period of time after cessation of the sedative, hypnotic or 
anxiolytic use or withdrawal, or if there is other evidence of a pre-existing primary 
mental disorder with anxiety symptoms (e.g., a history of prior episodes not 
associated with sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C44.Y  Other specified disorders due to use of sedatives,  hypnotics or anxiolytics  
 
6C44.Z  Disorders due to use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics, unspecified  
 
  6C45   Disorders due to use of cocaine  
Disorders due to use of cocaine are characterised by the pattern and consequences 
of cocaine use. Cocaine i s a compound found in the leaves of the coca plant, 
Erythroxylum coca, which is indigenous to countries in northern regions of South 
America. Cocaine has a limited place in medical treatment as an anaesthetic and 
vasoconstrictive agent. It is commonly used  illicitly and widely available across the 
world, where it is found in two main forms: cocaine hydrochloride and cocaine 
freebase (also known as ‘crack’). Cocaine is a central nervous system stimulant, 
and Cocaine Intoxication typically includes a state of  euphoria and hyperactivity. 
Cocaine has potent dependence -producing properties and Cocaine Dependence is 
a common cause of morbidity and of clinical presentations. Cocaine Withdrawal has 
a characteristic course that includes lethargy and depressed mood. A  range of 
Cocaine -Induced Mental Disorders is described.  
Exclusions:  Disorders due to use of stimulants including amphetamines, 
methamphetamine or methcathinone (6C46)  
Hazardous use of cocaine (QE11.3)  
 484  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C45.0  Episode of harmful use of cocaine  
An episode of use of cocaine that has caused damage to a person’s physical or 
mental health or has resulted in behaviour leading to harm to the health of others. 
Harm to health of the individual occurs due to one or more o f the following: (1) 
behaviour related to intoxication; (2) direct or secondary toxic effects on body 
organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of administration. Harm to health of 
others includes any form of physical harm, including trauma, or mental dis order that 
is directly attributable to behaviour due to cocaine intoxication on the part of the 
person to whom the diagnosis of single episode of harmful use applies. This 
diagnosis should not be made if the harm is attributed to a known pattern of cocaine  
use. 
Exclusions:  Cocaine dependence (6C45.2)  
Harmful pattern of use of cocaine (6C45.1)  
 
6C45.1  Harmful pattern of use of cocaine  
A pattern of use of cocaine that has caused damage to a person’s physical or 
mental health or has resulted in behaviour leadi ng to harm to the health of others. 
The pattern of cocaine use is evident over a period of at least 12 months if 
substance use is episodic or at least one month if use is continuous (i.e., daily or 
almost daily). Harm to health of the individual occurs due  to one or more of the 
following: (1) behaviour related to intoxication; (2) direct or secondary toxic effects 
on body organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of administration. Harm to 
health of others includes any form of physical harm, including trau ma, or mental 
disorder that is directly attributable to behaviour related to cocaine intoxication on 
the part of the person to whom the diagnosis of Harmful pattern of use of cocaine 
applies.  
Exclusions:  Cocaine dependence (6C45.2)  
Episode of harmful use o f cocaine (6C45.0)  
 
6C45.10  Harmful pattern of use of cocaine, episodic  
A pattern of episodic or intermittent cocaine use that has caused damage to a 
person’s physical or mental health or has resulted in behaviour leading to harm to 
the health of others. T he pattern of episodic cocaine use is evident over a period of 
at least 12 months. Harm to health of the individual occurs due to one or more of 
the following: (1) behaviour related to intoxication; (2) direct or secondary toxic 
effects on body organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of administration. Harm 
to health of others includes any form of physical harm, including trauma, or mental 
disorder that is directly attributable to behaviour related to cocaine intoxication on 
the part of the person to who m the diagnosis of Harmful pattern of use of cocaine 
applies.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of cocaine (6C45.0)  
Cocaine dependence (6C45.2)  
 ICD-11 MMS  485 
 6C45.11  Harmful pattern of use of cocaine, continuous  
A pattern of continuous (daily or almost daily) cocaine use that has caused damage 
to a person’s physical or mental health or has resulted in behaviour leading to harm 
to the health of others. The pattern of continuous cocaine use is evident over a 
period of at least one month. Harm to health of the individual occurs due to one or 
more of the following: (1) behaviour related to intoxication; (2) direct or secondary 
toxic effects on body organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of administration. 
Harm to health of others includes any form of physical harm, incl uding trauma, or 
mental disorder that is directly attributable to behaviour related to cocaine 
intoxication on the part of the person to whom the diagnosis of Harmful pattern of 
use of cocaine applies.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of cocaine (6C45.0)  
Cocaine dependence (6C45.2)  
 
6C45.1Z  Harmful pattern of use of cocaine, unspecified  
 
6C45.2  Cocaine dependence  
Cocaine dependence is a disorder of regulation of cocaine use arising from 
repeated or continuous use of cocaine. The characteristic feature is a strong 
internal drive to use cocaine, which is manifested by impaired ability to control use, 
increasing prior ity given to use over other activities and persistence of use despite 
harm or negative consequences. These experiences are often accompanied by a 
subjective sensation of urge or craving to use cocaine. Physiological features of 
dependence may also be prese nt, including tolerance to the effects of cocaine, 
withdrawal symptoms following cessation or reduction in use of cocaine, or 
repeated use of cocaine or pharmacologically similar substances to prevent or 
alleviate withdrawal symptoms. The features of depen dence are usually evident 
over a period of at least 12 months but the diagnosis may be made if cocaine use is 
continuous (daily or almost daily) for at least 3 months.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of cocaine (6C45.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of cocaine  (6C45.1)  
 
6C45.20  Cocaine dependence, current use  
Current cocaine dependence with cocaine use within the past month.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of cocaine (6C45.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of cocaine (6C45.1)  
 
6C45.21  Cocaine dependence, early full remission  
After a diagnosis of Cocaine dependence, and often following a treatment episode 
or other intervention (including self -help intervention), the individual has been 
abstinent from cocaine during a period lasting between 1 and 12 months.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of cocaine (6C45.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of cocaine (6C45.1)  
 486  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C45.22  Cocaine dependence, sustained partial remission  
After a diagnosis of Cocaine dependence, and often following a treatment episode 
or other intervention (including self -help intervention), there is a significant reduction 
in cocaine consumption for more than 12 months, such that even though cocaine 
use has occurred during this period , the definitional requirements for dependence 
have not been met.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of cocaine (6C45.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of cocaine (6C45.1)  
 
6C45.23  Cocaine dependence, sustained full remission  
After a diagnosis of cocaine dependenc e, and often following a treatment episode 
or other intervention (including self -intervention), the person has been abstinent 
from cocaine for 12 months or longer.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of cocaine (6C45.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of cocaine (6C 45.1)  
 
6C45.2Z  Cocaine dependence, unspecified  
 
6C45.3  Cocaine intoxication  
Cocaine intoxication is a clinically significant transient condition that develops during 
or shortly after the consumption of cocaine that is characterised by disturbances in 
consc iousness, cognition, perception, affect, behaviour, or coordination. These 
disturbances are caused by the known pharmacological effects of cocaine and their 
intensity is closely related to the amount of cocaine consumed. They are time -
limited and abate as cocaine is cleared from the body. Presenting features may 
include inappropriate euphoria, anxiety, anger, impaired attention, hypervigilance, 
psychomotor agitation, paranoid ideation (sometimes of delusional intensity), 
auditory hallucinations, confusion, and changes in sociability. Perspiration or chills, 
nausea or vomiting, and palpitations and chest pain may be experienced. Physical 
signs may include tachycardia, elevated blood pressure, and pupillary dilatation. In 
rare instances, usually in severe into xication, cocaine use can result in seizures, 
muscle weakness, dyskinesia, or dystonia.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
Exclusions:  cocaine poisoning (NE60)  
Possession trance disorder (6B63)  
 
6C45.4  Cocaine withdrawal  
Cocaine withdrawal is a clinically significant cluster of symptoms, behaviours and/or 
physiological features, varying in degree of severity and duration, that occurs upon 
cessation or reduction of use of cocaine in individuals who have developed Cocaine 
dependence or have used cocaine for a prolonged period or in large amounts. 
Presenting features of Cocaine withdrawal may include dysphoric mood, irritability, 
fatigue, psychomotor retardation, vivid unpleasant dreams, insomnia or 
hypersomnia, increased appe tite, anxiety, psychomotor agitation or retardation, and 
craving for cocaine.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 ICD-11 MMS  487 
 6C45.5  Cocaine -induced delirium  
Cocaine -induced delirium is characterised by an acute state of disturbed attention 
and awareness with specific features of delirium that develops during or soon after 
substance intoxication or withdrawal or during the use of cocaine. The amount and 
duratio n of cocaine use must be capable of producing delirium. The symptoms are 
not better explained by a primary mental disorder, by use of or withdrawal from a 
different substance, or by another health condition that is not classified under 
Mental, behavioural,  and neurodevelopmental disorders.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C45.6  Cocaine -induced psychotic disorder  
Cocaine -induced psychotic disorder is characterised by psychotic symptoms (e.g. 
delusions, hallucinations, disorganised thinking, gro ssly disorganised behaviour) 
that develop during or soon after intoxication with or withdrawal from cocaine. The 
intensity or duration of the symptoms is substantially in excess of psychotic -like 
disturbances of perception, cognition, or behaviour that are  characteristic of 
Cocaine intoxication or Cocaine withdrawal. The amount and duration of cocaine 
use must be capable of producing psychotic symptoms. The symptoms are not 
better explained by a primary mental disorder (e.g. Schizophrenia, a Mood disorder 
with psychotic symptoms), as might be the case if the psychotic symptoms 
preceded the onset of the cocaine use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial 
period of time after cessation of the cocaine use or withdrawal, or if there is other 
evidence of a pre -existing primary mental disorder with psychotic symptoms (e.g. a 
history of prior episodes not associated with cocaine use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C45.60  Cocaine -induced psychotic disorder with hallucinations  
Cocaine -induced psych otic disorder with hallucinations is characterised by the 
presence of hallucinations that are judged to be the direct consequence of cocaine 
use. Neither delusions nor other psychotic symptoms are present. The symptoms 
do not occur exclusively during hypno gogic or hypnopompic states, are not better 
accounted for by another mental and behavioural disorder (e.g., schizophrenia), and 
are not due to another disorder or disease classified elsewhere (e.g., epilepsies with 
visual symptoms).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C45.61  Cocaine -induced psychotic disorder with delusions  
Cocaine -induced psychotic disorder with delusions is characterised by the by the 
presence of delusions that are judged to be the direct consequence of cocaine use. 
Neither hal lucinations nor other psychotic symptoms are present. The symptoms do 
not occur exclusively during hypnogogic or hypnopompic states, are not better 
accounted for by another mental and behavioural disorder (e.g., schizophrenia), and 
are not due to another d isorder or disease classified elsewhere (e.g., epilepsies with 
visual symptoms).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 488  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C45.62  Cocaine -induced psychotic disorder with mixed psychotic symptoms  
Cocaine -induced psychotic disorder with mixed psychotic symptoms is 
characterised by the presence of multiple psychotic symptoms, primarily 
hallucinations and delusions, when these are judged to be the direct consequence 
of cocaine use. The symptoms do not occur exclusively during hypnogogic or 
hypnopompic stat es, are not better accounted for by another mental and 
behavioural disorder (e.g., Schizophrenia), and are not due to another disorder or 
disease classified elsewhere (e.g., epilepsies with visual symptoms).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C45.6Z  Cocaine -induced psychotic disorder, unspecified  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C45.7  Certain specified cocaine -induced mental or behavioural disorders  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C45.70  Cocaine -induced mood disorder  
Cocaine -induced mood disorder is characterised by mood symptoms (e.g., 
depressed or elevated mood, decreased engagement in pleasurable activities, 
increased or decreased energy levels) that develop during or soon after intoxic ation 
with or withdrawal from cocaine. The intensity or duration of the symptoms is 
substantially in excess of mood disturbances that are characteristic of Cocaine 
intoxication or Cocaine withdrawal. The amount and duration of cocaine use must 
be capable o f producing mood symptoms. The symptoms are not better explained 
by a primary mental disorder (e.g., a Depressive disorder, a Bipolar disorder, 
Schizoaffective disorder), as might be the case if the mood symptoms preceded the 
onset of the cocaine use, if t he symptoms persist for a substantial period of time 
after cessation of the cocaine use or withdrawal, or if there is other evidence of a 
pre-existing primary mental disorder with mood symptoms (e.g., a history of prior 
episodes not associated with cocaine  use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C45.71  Cocaine -induced anxiety disorder  
Cocaine -induced anxiety disorder is characterised by anxiety symptoms (e.g., 
apprehension or worry, fear, physiological symptoms of excessive autonomic 
arousal, a voidance behaviour) that develop during or soon after intoxication with or 
withdrawal from cocaine. The intensity or duration of the symptoms is substantially 
in excess of anxiety symptoms that are characteristic of Cocaine intoxication or 
Cocaine withdraw al. The amount and duration of cocaine use must be capable of 
producing anxiety symptoms. The symptoms are not better explained by a primary 
mental disorder (e.g., an Anxiety and fear -related disorder, a Depressive disorder 
with prominent anxiety symptoms) , as might be the case if the anxiety symptoms 
preceded the onset of the cocaine use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial 
period of time after cessation of the cocaine use or withdrawal, or if there is other 
evidence of a pre -existing primary mental disorder with anxiety symptoms (e.g., a 
history of prior episodes not associated with cocaine use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 ICD-11 MMS  489 
 6C45.72  Cocaine -induced obsessive -compulsive or related disorder  
Cocaine -induced obsessive -compulsive or relat ed disorder is characterised by 
either repetitive intrusive thoughts or preoccupations, normally associated with 
anxiety and typically accompanied by repetitive behaviours performed in response, 
or by recurrent and habitual actions directed at the integume nt (e.g., hair pulling, 
skin picking) that develop during or soon after intoxication with or withdrawal from 
cocaine. The intensity or duration of the symptoms is substantially in excess of 
analogous disturbances that are characteristic of Cocaine intoxica tion or Cocaine 
withdrawal. The amount and duration of cocaine use must be capable of producing 
obsessive -compulsive or related symptoms. The symptoms are not better explained 
by a primary mental disorder (in particular an Obsessive -compulsive or related 
disorder), as might be the case if the symptoms preceded the onset of the cocaine 
use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial period of time after cessation of the 
cocaine use or withdrawal, or if there is other evidence of a pre -existing primary 
mental disorder with obsessive -compulsive or related symptoms (e.g., a history of 
prior episodes not associated with cocaine use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C45.73  Cocaine -induced impulse control disorder  
Cocaine -induced impulse control disor der is characterised by persistently repeated 
behaviours in which there is recurrent failure to resist an impulse, drive, or urge to 
perform an act that is rewarding to the person, at least in the short -term, despite 
longer -term harm either to the individu al or to others (e.g., fire setting or stealing 
without apparent motive, repetitive sexual behaviour, aggressive outbursts) that 
develop during or soon after intoxication with or withdrawal from cocaine. The 
intensity or duration of the symptoms is substan tially in excess of disturbances of 
impulse control that are characteristic of Cocaine intoxication or Cocaine 
withdrawal. The amount and duration of cocaine use must be capable of producing 
disturbances of impulse control. The symptoms are not better expl ained by a 
primary mental disorder (e.g., an Impulse control disorder, a Disorder due to 
addictive behaviours), as might be the case if the impulse control disturbances 
preceded the onset of the cocaine use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial 
period  of time after cessation of the cocaine use or withdrawal, or if there is other 
evidence of a pre -existing primary mental disorder with impulse control symptoms 
(e.g., a history of prior episodes not associated with cocaine use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C45.Y  Other specified disorders due to use of cocaine  
 
6C45.Z  Disorders due to use of cocaine, unspecified  
 490  ICD-11 MMS  
   6C46   Disorders due to use of stimulants including amphetamines, 
methamphetamine or methcathinone  
Disorders due  to use of stimulants including amphetamines, methamphetamine or 
methcathinone are characterised by the pattern and consequences of use of these 
substances. There is a wide array of naturally occurring and synthetically produced 
psychostimulants other than  cocaine. The most numerous of this group are the 
amphetamine -type substances, including methamphetamine. Prescribed stimulants 
including dexamphetamine are indicated for a limited number of conditions such as 
for Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder. Methcathinone, known in many countries 
as ephedrone, is a synthetic potent stimulant that is a structural analogue of 
methamphetamine and is related to cathinone. All these drugs have primarily 
psychostimulant properties and are also vasoconstrictors to a varying degree. They 
induce euphoria and hyperactivity as may be seen in Stimulant Intoxication. They 
have potent dependence -producing properties, which may lead to the diagnosis of 
Stimulant Dependence and Stimulant Withdrawal following the cessation of u se. 
Several Stimulant -Induced Mental Disorders are described.  
Exclusions:  Disorders due to use of synthetic cathinones (6C47)  
Disorders due to use of caffeine (6C48)  
Disorders due to use of cocaine (6C45)  
Hazardous use of stimulants including amphetamines or 
methamphetamine (QE11.4)  
 
6C46.0  Episode of harmful use of stimulants including amphetamines, 
methamphetamine or methcathinone  
An episode of use of a stimulant including amphetamines, methamphetamine an d 
methcathinone that has caused damage to a person’s physical or mental health or 
has resulted in behaviour leading to harm to the health of others. Harm to health of 
the individual occurs due to one or more of the following: (1) behaviour related to 
intox ication; (2) direct or secondary toxic effects on body organs and systems; or (3) 
a harmful route of administration. Harm to health of others includes any form of 
physical harm, including trauma, or mental disorder that is directly attributable to 
behaviou r due to stimulant intoxication on the part of the person to whom the 
diagnosis of single episode of harmful use applies. This diagnosis should not be 
made if the harm is attributed to a known pattern of stimulant including 
amphetamines, methamphetamine an d methcathinone use.  
Exclusions:  Harmful pattern of use of stimulants including amphetamines, 
methamphetamine or methcathinone (6C46.1)  
Stimulant dependence including amphetamines, 
methamphetamine or methcathinone (6C46.2)  
 ICD-11 MMS  491 
 6C46.1  Harmful pattern of use of  stimulants including amphetamines, 
methamphetamine or methcathinone  
A pattern of use of stimulants including amphetamines, methamphetamine and 
methcathinone but excluding caffeine, cocaine and synthetic cathinones that has 
caused damage to a person’s phys ical or mental health or has resulted in behaviour 
leading to harm to the health of others. The pattern of stimulant use is evident over 
a period of at least 12 months if substance use is episodic or at least one month if 
use is continuous. Harm to health of the individual occurs due to one or more of the 
following: (1) behaviour related to intoxication; (2) direct or secondary toxic effects 
on body organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of administration. Harm to 
health of others includes any form of p hysical harm, including trauma, or mental 
disorder that is directly attributable to behaviour related to stimulant intoxication on 
the part of the person to whom the diagnosis of Harmful pattern of use of stimulants 
including amphetamines, methamphetamine and methcathinone applies.  
Exclusions:  Harmful pattern of use of caffeine (6C48.1)  
Harmful pattern of use of cocaine (6C45.1)  
Harmful pattern of use of synthetic cathinones (6C47.1)  
Episode of harmful use of stimulants including amphetamines, 
methamphetami ne or methcathinone (6C46.0)  
Stimulant dependence including amphetamines, 
methamphetamine or methcathinone (6C46.2)  
 
6C46.10  Harmful pattern of use of stimulants including amphetamines, methamphetamine or 
methcathinone, episodic  
A pattern of episodic or in termittent use of stimulants including amphetamines, 
methamphetamine and methcathinone but excluding caffeine, cocaine and synthetic 
cathinones that has caused damage to a person’s physical or mental health or has 
resulted in behaviour leading to harm to t he health of others. The pattern of episodic 
stimulant use is evident over a period of at least 12 months. Harm to health of the 
individual occurs due to one or more of the following: (1) behaviour related to 
intoxication; (2) direct or secondary toxic eff ects on body organs and systems; or (3) 
a harmful route of administration. Harm to health of others includes any form of 
physical harm, including trauma, or mental disorder that is directly attributable to 
behaviour related to stimulant intoxication on the  part of the person to whom the 
diagnosis of Harmful pattern of use of stimulants including amphetamines, 
methamphetamine and methcathinone applies.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of stimulants including amphetamines, 
methamphetamine or methcathinone ( 6C46.0)  
Stimulant dependence including amphetamines, 
methamphetamine or methcathinone (6C46.2)  
 492  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C46.11  Harmful pattern of use of stimulants including amphetamines, methamphetamine or 
methcathinone, continuous  
A pattern of use of stimulants including amphe tamines, methamphetamine and 
methcathinone but excluding caffeine, cocaine and synthetic cathinones that has 
caused damage to a person’s physical or mental health or has resulted in behaviour 
leading to harm to the health of others. The pattern of stimulan t use is evident over 
a period of at least 12 months if substance use is episodic or at least one month if 
use is continuous (i.e., daily or almost daily). Harm to health of the individual occurs 
due to one or more of the following: (1) behaviour related t o intoxication; (2) direct 
or secondary toxic effects on body organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of 
administration. Harm to health of others includes any form of physical harm, 
including trauma, or mental disorder that is directly attributable to b ehaviour related 
to stimulant intoxication on the part of the person to whom the diagnosis of Harmful 
pattern of use of stimulants including amphetamines, methamphetamine and 
methcathinone applies.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of stimulants including  amphetamines, 
methamphetamine or methcathinone (6C46.0)  
Stimulant dependence including amphetamines, 
methamphetamine or methcathinone (6C46.2)  
 
6C46.1Z  Harmful pattern of use of stimulants including amphetamines, methamphetamine 
and methcathinone, unspeci fied 
 
6C46.2  Stimulant dependence including amphetamines, methamphetamine or 
methcathinone  
Stimulant dependence including amphetamines, methamphetamine or 
methcathinone is a disorder of regulation of stimulant use arising from repeated or 
continuous use of stimulants. The characteristic feature is a strong internal drive to 
use stimulants, which  is manifested by impaired ability to control use, increasing 
priority given to use over other activities and persistence of use despite harm or 
negative consequences. These experiences are often accompanied by a subjective 
sensation of urge or craving to use stimulants. Physiological features of 
dependence may also be present, including tolerance to the effects of stimulants, 
withdrawal symptoms following cessation or reduction in use of stimulants, or 
repeated use of stimulants or pharmacologically simila r substances to prevent or 
alleviate withdrawal symptoms. The features of dependence are usually evident 
over a period of at least 12 months but the diagnosis may be made if stimulant use 
is continuous (daily or almost daily) for at least 3 months.  
Exclusions:  Cocaine dependence (6C45.2)  
Synthetic cathinone dependence (6C47.2)  
Episode of harmful use of stimulants including amphetamines, 
methamphetamine or methcathinone (6C46.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of stimulants including amphetamines, 
methamphetam ine or methcathinone (6C46.1)  
 ICD-11 MMS  493 
 6C46.20  Stimulant dependence including amphetamines, methamphetamine or 
methcathinone, current use  
Stimulant dependence including amphetamines, methamphetamine and 
methcathinone but excluding caffeine, cocaine and synthetic c athinones refers to 
amphetamine or other stimulant use within the past month.  
Exclusions:  Harmful pattern of use of stimulants including amphetamines, 
methamphetamine or methcathinone (6C46.1)  
Episode of harmful use of stimulants including amphetamines, 
methamphetamine or methcathinone (6C46.0)  
 
6C46.21  Stimulant dependence including amphetamines, methamphetamine or 
methcathinone, early full remission  
After a diagnosis of Stimulant dependence including amphetamines, 
methamphetamine and methcathinone but exc luding caffeine, cocaine and synthetic 
cathinones, and often following a treatment episode or other intervention (including 
self-help intervention), the individual has been abstinent from stimulants during a 
period lasting between 1 and 12 months.  
Exclusio ns: Episode of harmful use of stimulants including amphetamines, 
methamphetamine or methcathinone (6C46.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of stimulants including amphetamines, 
methamphetamine or methcathinone (6C46.1)  
 
6C46.22  Stimulant dependence including amphet amines, methamphetamine or 
methcathinone, sustained partial remission  
After a diagnosis of Stimulant dependence including amphetamines, 
methamphetamine and methcathinone but excluding caffeine, cocaine and synthetic 
cathinones, and often following a treatm ent episode or other intervention (including 
self-help intervention), there is a significant reduction in amphetamine or other 
stimulant consumption for more than 12 months, such that even though 
amphetamine or other stimulant use has occurred during this period, the definitional 
requirements for dependence have not been met.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of stimulants including amphetamines, 
methamphetamine or methcathinone (6C46.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of stimulants including amphetamines, 
methamph etamine or methcathinone (6C46.1)  
 
6C46.23  Stimulant dependence including amphetamines, methamphetamine or 
methcathinone, sustained full remission  
After a diagnosis of Stimulant dependence including amphetamines, 
methamphetamine and methcathinone but exclu ding caffeine, cocaine and synthetic 
cathinones, and often following a treatment episode or other intervention (including 
self-intervention), the person has been abstinent from amphetamine or other 
stimulants for 12 months or longer.  
Exclusions:  Episode of  harmful use of stimulants including amphetamines, 
methamphetamine or methcathinone (6C46.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of stimulants including amphetamines, 
methamphetamine or methcathinone (6C46.1)  
 
6C46.2Z  Stimulant dependence including amphetamines, metham phetamine or 
methcathinone, unspecified  
 494  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C46.3  Stimulant intoxication including amphetamines, methamphetamine or 
methcathinone  
Stimulant intoxication including amphetamines, methamphetamine and 
methcathinone but excluding caffeine, cocaine and synthetic cathinones is a 
clinically significant transient condition that develops during or shortly after the 
consumption of amphetamine o r other stimulants that is characterised by 
disturbances in consciousness, cognition, perception, affect, behaviour, or 
coordination. These disturbances are caused by the known pharmacological effects 
of amphetamine or other stimulants and their intensity is closely related to the 
amount of amphetamine or other stimulant consumed. They are time -limited and 
abate as amphetamine or another stimulant is cleared from the body. Presenting 
features may include anxiety, anger, impaired attention, hypervigilance, 
psychomotor agitation, paranoid ideation (possibly of delusional intensity), transient 
auditory hallucinations, transitory confusion, and changes in sociability. Perspiration 
or chills, nausea or vomiting, and palpitations may be experienced. Physical signs  
may include tachycardia, elevated blood pressure, pupillary dilatation, dyskinesias 
and dystonias, and skin sores. In rare instances, usually in severe intoxication, use 
of stimulants including amphetamines, methamphetamine and methcathinone can 
result in  seizures.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
Exclusions:  amphetamine poisoning (NE60)  
Caffeine intoxication (6C48.2)  
Cocaine intoxication (6C45.3)  
Synthetic cathinone intoxication (6C47.3)  
Possession trance disorder (6B63)  
 
6C46.4  Stimulant with drawal including amphetamines, methamphetamine or 
methcathinone  
Stimulant withdrawal including amphetamines, methamphetamine and 
methcathinone is a clinically significant cluster of symptoms, behaviours and/or 
physiological features, varying in degree of s everity and duration, that occurs upon 
cessation or reduction of use of stimulants in individuals who have developed 
Stimulant dependence or have used stimulants for a prolonged period or in large 
amounts. Stimulant withdrawal can also occur when prescribe d stimulants have 
been used in standard therapeutic doses. Presenting features of stimulant 
withdrawal may include dysphoric mood, irritability, fatigue, insomnia or (more 
commonly) hypersomnia, vivid and unpleasant dreams, increased appetite, 
psychomotor agitation or retardation, and craving for amphetamine or related 
stimulants.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
Exclusions:  Cocaine withdrawal (6C45.4)  
Caffeine withdrawal (6C48.3)  
Synthetic cathinone withdrawal (6C47.4)  
 ICD-11 MMS  495 
 6C46.5  Stimulant -induced delirium including amphetamines, methamphetamine or 
methcathinone  
Stimulant -induced delirium including amphetamines, methamphetamine and 
methcathinone is characterised by an acute state of d isturbed attention and 
awareness with specific features of delirium that develops during or soon after 
substance intoxication or withdrawal or during the use of stimulants. The amount 
and duration of stimulant use must be capable of producing delirium. The  symptoms 
are not better explained by a primary mental disorder, by use of or withdrawal from 
a different substance, or by another health condition that is not classified under 
Mental, behavioural and neurodevelopmental disorders.  
Coding Note:  Code also th e causing condition  
Exclusions:  Cocaine -induced delirium (6C45.5)  
Synthetic cathinone -induced delirium (6C47.5)  
Disorders due to use of caffeine (6C48)  
 
6C46.6  Stimulant -induced psychotic disorder including amphetamines, 
methamphetamine or methcathinone  
Stimulant -induced psychotic disorder including amphetamines, methamphetamine 
and methcathinone is characterised by psychotic symptoms (e.g., delusions, 
hallucinations, disorganised thinking, grossly disorganised behaviour) that develop 
during or soon after i ntoxication or withdrawal due to stimulants. The intensity or 
duration of the symptoms is substantially in excess of psychotic -like disturbances of 
perception, cognition, or behaviour that are characteristic of Stimulant intoxication or 
Stimulant withdrawa l. The amount and duration of stimulant use must be capable of 
producing psychotic symptoms. The symptoms are not better explained by a 
primary mental disorder (e.g., Schizophrenia, a Mood disorder with psychotic 
symptoms), as might be the case if the psyc hotic symptoms preceded the onset of 
the stimulant use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial period of time after 
cessation of the stimulant use or withdrawal, or if there is other evidence of a pre -
existing primary mental disorder with psychotic symp toms (e.g., a history of prior 
episodes not associated with use of stimulants).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
Exclusions:  Cocaine -induced psychotic disorder (6C45.6)  
Synthetic cathinone -induced psychotic disorder (6C47.6)  
Disorders due to use of caffeine (6C48)  
 496  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C46.60  Stimulant -induced psychotic disorder including amphetamines, methamphetamine 
or methcathinone with hallucinations  
Stimulant -induced psychotic disorder with hallucinations is characterised by the 
presence of hallucinations that are judged to be the direct consequence of stimulant 
use. Neither delusions nor other psychotic symptoms are present. The symptoms 
do not occur exclusively during hypnogogic or hypnopompic states, are not better 
accounted for by another  mental and behavioural disorder (e.g., schizophrenia), and 
are not due to another disorder or disease classified elsewhere (e.g., epilepsies with 
visual symptoms).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
Exclusions:  Cocaine -induced psychotic disorder  with hallucinations 
(6C45.60)  
Disorders due to use of caffeine (6C48)  
Synthetic cathinone -induced psychotic disorder with 
hallucinations (6C47.60)  
 
6C46.61  Stimulant -induced psychotic disorder including amphetamines, methamphetamine 
or methcathinone with delusions  
Stimulant -induced psychotic disorder including amphetamines, methamphetamine 
and methcathinone is characterised by psychotic symptoms (e.g., delusions, 
hallucinations, disorganised thinking, grossly disorganised behaviour) that develop 
during or soon after intoxication or withdrawal due to stimulants. The intensity or 
duration of the symptoms is substantially in excess of psychotic -like disturbances of 
perception, cognition, or behaviour that are characteristic of Stimulant intoxication or 
Stimula nt withdrawal. The amount and duration of stimulant use must be capable of 
producing psychotic symptoms. The symptoms are not better explained by a 
primary mental disorder (e.g., Schizophrenia, a Mood disorder with psychotic 
symptoms), as might be the case  if the psychotic symptoms preceded the onset of 
the stimulant use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial period of time after 
cessation of the stimulant use or withdrawal, or if there is other evidence of a pre -
existing primary mental disorder with ps ychotic symptoms (e.g., a history of prior 
episodes not associated with use of stimulants).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
Exclusions:  Disorders due to use of caffeine (6C48)  
Cocaine -induced psychotic disorder with delusions (6C45.61)  
Synthet ic cathinone -induced psychotic disorder with delusions 
(6C47.61)  
 ICD-11 MMS  497 
 6C46.62  Stimulant -induced psychotic disorder including amphetamines but excluding 
caffeine or cocaine with mixed psychotic symptoms  
Stimulant -induced psychotic disorder with mixed psychotic symptoms is 
characterised by the presence of multiple psychotic symptoms, primarily 
hallucinations and delusions, when these are judged to be the direct consequence 
of stimulant use. The symptoms do not occur exclusively during hypnogogic or 
hypnopompic st ates, are not better accounted for by another mental and 
behavioural disorder (e.g., Schizophrenia), and are not due to another disorder or 
disease classified elsewhere (e.g., epilepsies with visual symptoms).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
Exclusions:  Disorders due to use of caffeine (6C48)  
Cocaine -induced psychotic disorder with mixed psychotic 
symptoms (6C45.62)  
Synthetic cathinone -induced psychotic disorder with mixed 
psychotic symptoms (6C47.62)  
 
6C46.6Z  Stimulant -induced psychotic disorder including amphetamines, methamphetamine 
or methcathinone, unspecified  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C46.7  Certain specified stimulant -induced mental or behavioural disorders including 
amphetamines, meth amphetamine or methcathinone  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C46.70  Stimulant -induced mood disorder including amphetamines, methamphetamine or 
methcathinone  
Stimulant -induced mood disorder including amphetamines, methamphetamine and 
methcathinone is characterised by mood symptoms (e.g., depressed or elevated 
mood, decrease d engagement in pleasurable activities, increased or decreased 
energy levels) that develop during or soon after intoxication or withdrawal due to 
stimulants. The intensity or duration of the symptoms is substantially in excess of 
mood disturbances that are  characteristic of Stimulant intoxication or Stimulant 
withdrawal. The amount and duration of stimulant use must be capable of producing 
mood symptoms. The symptoms are not better explained by a primary mental 
disorder (e.g., a Depressive disorder, a Bipol ar disorder, Schizoaffective disorder), 
as might be the case if the mood symptoms preceded the onset of the stimulant 
use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial period of time after cessation of the 
stimulant use or withdrawal, or if there is other evi dence of a pre -existing primary 
mental disorder with mood symptoms (e.g., a history of prior episodes not 
associated with use of stimulants).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
Exclusions:  Synthetic cathinone -induced mood disorder (6C47.70)  
Cocai ne-induced mood disorder (6C45.70)  
Disorders due to use of caffeine (6C48)  
 498  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C46.71  Stimulant -induced anxiety disorder including amphetamines, methamphetamine or 
methcathinone  
Stimulant -induced anxiety disorder including amphetamines, methamphetamine and 
methcathinone is characterised by anxiety symptoms (e.g., apprehension or worry, 
fear, physiological symptoms of excessive autonomic arousal, avoidance behaviour) 
that develop during or soon after intoxication or withdrawal due to stimulants. The 
intensity or duration of the symptoms is substantially in excess of anxiety symptoms 
that are characteristic of Stimulant intoxication or Stimulant withdrawal. The amount 
and duration of stimulant use must be capable of producing anxiety symptoms. The 
symptoms are n ot better explained by a primary mental disorder (e.g., an Anxiety 
and fear -related disorder, a Depressive disorder with prominent anxiety symptoms), 
as might be the case if the anxiety symptoms preceded the onset of the stimulant 
use, if the symptoms pers ist for a substantial period of time after cessation of the 
stimulant use or withdrawal, or if there is other evidence of a pre -existing primary 
mental disorder with anxiety symptoms (e.g., a history of prior episodes not 
associated with use of stimulants) . 
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
Exclusions:  Cocaine -induced anxiety disorder (6C45.71)  
Caffeine -induced anxiety disorder (6C48.40)  
Synthetic cathinone -induced anxiety disorder (6C47.71)  
 
6C46.72  Stimulant -induced obsessive -compulsive or rela ted disorder including 
amphetamines, methamphetamine or methcathinone  
Stimulant -induced obsessive -compulsive or related disorder including 
amphetamines, methamphetamine and methcathinone is characterised by either 
repetitive intrusive thoughts or preoccupa tions, normally associated with anxiety 
and typically accompanied by repetitive behaviours performed in response, or by 
recurrent and habitual actions directed at the integument (e.g., hair pulling, skin 
picking) that develop during or soon after intoxicat ion with or withdrawal from 
stimulants. The intensity or duration of the symptoms is substantially in excess of 
analogous disturbances that are characteristic of Stimulant intoxication or Stimulant 
withdrawal. The amount and duration of stimulant use must be capable of producing 
obsessive -compulsive or related symptoms. The symptoms are not better explained 
by a primary mental disorder (in particular an Obsessive -compulsive or related 
disorder), as might be the case if the symptoms preceded the onset of the  stimulant 
use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial period of time after cessation of the 
stimulant use or withdrawal, or if there is other evidence of a pre -existing primary 
mental disorder with obsessive -compulsive or related symptoms (e.g., a hist ory of 
prior episodes not associated with stimulant use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
Exclusions:  Cocaine -induced obsessive -compulsive or related disorder 
(6C45.72)  
Synthetic cathinone -induced obsessive -compulsive or related 
syndrome (6C47 .72) 
Disorders due to use of caffeine (6C48)  
 ICD-11 MMS  499 
 6C46.73  Stimulant -induced impulse control disorder including amphetamines, 
methamphetamine or methcathinone  
Stimulant -induced impulse control disorder including amphetamines, 
methamphetamine and methcathinone i s characterised by persistently repeated 
behaviours in which there is recurrent failure to resist an impulse, drive, or urge to 
perform an act that is rewarding to the person, at least in the short -term, despite 
longer -term harm either to the individual or  to others (e.g., fire setting or stealing 
without apparent motive, repetitive sexual behaviour, aggressive outbursts) that 
develop during or soon after intoxication with or withdrawal from stimulants. The 
intensity or duration of the symptoms is substanti ally in excess of disturbances of 
impulse control that are characteristic of Stimulant intoxication or Stimulant 
withdrawal. The amount and duration of stimulant use must be capable of producing 
disturbances of impulse control. The symptoms are not better explained by a 
primary mental disorder (e.g., an Impulse control disorder, a Disorder due to 
addictive behaviours), as might be the case if the impulse control disturbances 
preceded the onset of the stimulant use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial 
period of time after cessation of the stimulant use or withdrawal, or if there is other 
evidence of a pre -existing primary mental disorder with impulse control symptoms 
(e.g., a history of prior episodes not associated with stimulant use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C46.Y  Other specified disorders due to use of stimulants including amphetamines, 
methamphetamine or methcathinone  
 
6C46.Z  Disorders due to use of stimulants including amphetamines, 
methamphetamine or methcathinone, unspecified  
 
  6C47   Disorders due to use of synthetic cathinones  
Disorders due to use of synthetic cathinones are characterised by the pattern and 
consequences o f synthetic cathinone use. Synthetic cathinones (also known as 
‘bath salts’) are synthetic compounds with stimulant properties related to cathinone 
found in the khat plant, Catha edulis. The use of synthetic cathinones is common in 
young populations in man y countries. They may produce a range of disorders 
including Synthetic Cathinone Intoxication, Synthetic Cathinone Dependence and 
Synthetic Cathinone Withdrawal. Several synthetic cathinone -induced mental 
disorders are recognised.  
 
6C47.0  Episode of harmful use of synthetic cathinones  
An episode of synthetic cathinone use that has caused damage to a person’s 
physical or mental health or has resulted in behaviour leading to harm to the health 
of others. Harm to health of the individual occur s due to one or more of the 
following: (1) behaviour related to intoxication; (2) direct or secondary toxic effects 
on body organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of administration. Harm to 
health of others includes any form of physical harm, including  trauma, or mental 
disorder that is directly attributable to behaviour due to synthetic cathinone 
intoxication on the part of the person to whom the diagnosis of single episode of 
harmful use applies. This diagnosis should not be made if the harm is attrib uted to a 
known pattern of synthetic cathinone use.  
Exclusions:  Harmful pattern of use of synthetic cathinones (6C47.1)  
Synthetic cathinone dependence (6C47.2)  
 500  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C47.1  Harmful pattern of use of synthetic cathinones  
A pattern of use of synthetic cathinones that has caused damage to a person’s 
physical or mental health or has resulted in behaviour leading to harm to the health 
of others. The pattern of synthetic cathinone use is evident over a period of at least 
12 months if substance use is episodic or at le ast one month if use is continuous 
(i.e., daily or almost daily). Harm to health of the individual occurs due to one or 
more of the following: (1) behaviour related to intoxication; (2) direct or secondary 
toxic effects on body organs and systems; or (3) a  harmful route of administration. 
Harm to health of others includes any form of physical harm, including trauma, or 
mental disorder that is directly attributable to behaviour related to synthetic 
cathinone intoxication on the part of the person to whom the  diagnosis of Harmful 
pattern of use of synthetic cathinones applies.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of synthetic cathinones (6C47.0)  
Synthetic cathinone dependence (6C47.2)  
 
6C47.10  Harmful pattern of use of synthetic cathinones, episodic  
A pattern of  episodic or intermittent use of synthetic cathinones that has caused 
damage to a person’s physical or mental health or has resulted in behaviour leading 
to harm to the health of others. The pattern of episodic synthetic cathinone use is 
evident over a per iod of at least 12 months. Harm to health of the individual occurs 
due to one or more of the following: (1) behaviour related to intoxication; (2) direct 
or secondary toxic effects on body organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of 
administration. Harm to health of others includes any form of physical harm, 
including trauma, or mental disorder that is directly attributable to behaviour related 
to synthetic cathinone intoxication on the part of the person to whom the diagnosis 
of Harmful pattern of use of  synthetic cathinones applies.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of synthetic cathinones (6C47.0)  
Synthetic cathinone dependence (6C47.2)  
 
6C47.11  Harmful use of synthetic cathinones, continuous  
A pattern of continuous (daily or almost daily) use of synth etic cathinones that has 
caused damage to a person’s physical or mental health or has resulted in behaviour 
leading to harm to the health of others. The pattern of continuous synthetic 
cathinone use is evident over a period of at least one month. Harm to h ealth of the 
individual occurs due to one or more of the following: (1) behaviour related to 
intoxication; (2) direct or secondary toxic effects on body organs and systems; or (3) 
a harmful route of administration. Harm to health of others includes any for m of 
physical harm, including trauma, or mental disorder that is directly attributable to 
behaviour related to synthetic cathinone intoxication on the part of the person to 
whom the diagnosis of Harmful use of synthetic cathinones applies.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of synthetic cathinones (6C47.0)  
Synthetic cathinone dependence (6C47.2)  
 
6C47.1Y  Other specified harmful pattern of use of synthetic cathinones  
 
6C47.1Z  Harmful pattern of use of synthetic cathinones, unspecified  
 ICD-11 MMS  501 
 6C47.2  Synthetic cathinone dependence  
Synthetic cathinone dependence is a disorder of regulation of synthetic cathinone 
use arising from repeated or continuous use of synthetic cathinones. The 
characteristic feature is a strong internal drive to use synthetic cat hinones, which is 
manifested by impaired ability to control use, increasing priority given to use over 
other activities and persistence of use despite harm or negative consequences. 
These experiences are often accompanied by a subjective sensation of urge or 
craving to use synthetic cathinones. Physiological features of dependence may also 
be present, including tolerance to the effects of synthetic cathinones, withdrawal 
symptoms following cessation or reduction in use of synthetic cathinones, or 
repeated u se of synthetic cathinones or pharmacologically similar substances to 
prevent or alleviate withdrawal symptoms. The features of dependence are usually 
evident over a period of at least 12 months but the diagnosis may be made if 
synthetic cathinone use is c ontinuous (daily or almost daily) for at least 3 months.  
Exclusions:  Harmful pattern of use of synthetic cathinones (6C47.1)  
Episode of harmful use of synthetic cathinones (6C47.0)  
 
6C47.20  Synthetic cathinone dependence, current use  
Current synthetic cath inone dependence with use of synthetic cathinones within the 
past month.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of synthetic cathinones (6C47.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of synthetic cathinones (6C47.1)  
 
6C47.21  Synthetic cathinone dependence, early full remissi on 
After a diagnosis of synthetic cathinone dependence, and often following a 
treatment episode or other intervention (including self -help intervention), the 
individual has been abstinent from synthetic cathinone use during a period lasting 
between 1 and 1 2 months.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of synthetic cathinones (6C47.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of synthetic cathinones (6C47.1)  
 
6C47.22  Synthetic cathinone dependence, sustained partial remission  
After a diagnosis of synthetic cathinone dependence, and often following a 
treatment episode or other intervention (including self -help intervention), there is a 
significant reduction in synthetic  cathinone consumption for more than 12 months, 
such that even though synthetic cathinone use has occurred during this period, the 
definitional requirements for dependence have not been met.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of synthetic cathinones (6C47. 0) 
Harmful pattern of use of synthetic cathinones (6C47.1)  
 
6C47.23  Synthetic cathinone dependence, sustained full remission  
After a diagnosis of synthetic cathinone dependence, and often following a 
treatment episode or other intervention (including self -intervention), the person has 
been abstinent from synthetic cathinone use for 12 months or longer.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of synthetic cathinones (6C47.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of synthetic cathinones (6C47.1)  
 
6C47.2Y  Other specified syntheti c cathinone dependence  
 502  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C47.2Z  Synthetic cathinone dependence, unspecified  
 
6C47.3  Synthetic cathinone intoxication  
Synthetic cathinone intoxication is a clinically significant transient condition that 
develops during or shortly after the consumption of synthetic cathinones that is 
characterised by disturbances in consciousness, cognition, perception, affect, 
behaviour,  or coordination. These disturbances are caused by the known 
pharmacological effects of synthetic cathinones and their intensity is closely related 
to the amount of synthetic cathinones consumed. They are time -limited and abate 
as the synthetic cathinone i s cleared from the body. Presenting features may 
include anxiety, anger, impaired attention, hypervigilance, psychomotor agitation, 
paranoid ideation (possibly of delusional intensity), transient auditory hallucinations, 
transitory confusion, and changes i n sociability. Perspiration or chills, nausea or 
vomiting, and palpitations may be experienced. Physical signs may include 
tachycardia, elevated blood pressure, pupillary dilatation, dyskinesias and 
dystonias, and skin sores. In rare instances, usually in severe intoxication, use of 
synthetic cathinones can result in seizures.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C47.4  Synthetic cathinone withdrawal  
Synthetic cathinone withdrawal is a clinically significant cluster of symptoms, 
behaviours and/or p hysiological features, varying in degree of severity and duration, 
that occurs upon cessation or reduction of use of synthetic cathinones in individuals 
who have developed Synthetic cathinone dependence or have used synthetic 
cathinones for a prolonged per iod or in large amounts. Presenting features of 
Synthetic cathinone withdrawal may include dysphoric mood, irritability, fatigue, 
insomnia or (more commonly) hypersomnia, vivid and unpleasant dreams, 
increased appetite, psychomotor agitation or retardation , and craving for stimulants, 
including synthetic cathinones.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C47.5  Synthetic cathinone -induced delirium  
Synthetic cathinone -induced delirium is characterised by an acute state of disturbed 
attention and aware ness with specific features of delirium that develops during or 
soon after substance intoxication or withdrawal or during the use of synthetic 
cathinones. The amount and duration of synthetic cathinone use must be capable of 
producing delirium. The symptom s are not better explained by a primary mental 
disorder, by use of or withdrawal from a different substance, or by another health 
condition that is not classified under Mental, behavioural and neurodevelopmental 
disorders.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causin g condition  
 ICD-11 MMS  503 
 6C47.6  Synthetic cathinone -induced psychotic disorder  
Synthetic cathinone -induced psychotic disorder is characterised by psychotic 
symptoms (e.g., delusions, hallucinations, disorganised thinking, grossly 
disorganised behaviour) that develop d uring or soon after intoxication with or 
withdrawal from synthetic cathinones. The intensity or duration of the symptoms is 
substantially in excess of psychotic -like disturbances of perception, cognition, or 
behaviour that are characteristic of Synthetic c athinone intoxication or Synthetic 
cathinone withdrawal. The amount and duration of synthetic cathinone use must be 
capable of producing psychotic symptoms. The symptoms are not better explained 
by a primary mental disorder (e.g., Schizophrenia, a Mood dis order with psychotic 
symptoms), as might be the case if the psychotic symptoms preceded the onset of 
the synthetic cathinone use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial period of time 
after cessation of the synthetic cathinone use or withdrawal, or if t here is other 
evidence of a pre -existing primary mental disorder with psychotic symptoms (e.g., a 
history of prior episodes not associated with synthetic cathinone use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C47.60  Synthetic cathinone -induced psyc hotic disorder with hallucinations  
Synthetic cathinone -induced psychotic disorder with hallucinations is characterised 
by the presence of hallucinations that are judged to be the direct consequence of 
synthetic cathinone use. Neither delusions nor other ps ychotic symptoms are 
present. The symptoms do not occur exclusively during hypnogogic or hypnopompic 
states, are not better accounted for by another mental and behavioural disorder 
(e.g., schizophrenia), and are not due to another disorder or disease class ified 
elsewhere (e.g., epilepsies with visual symptoms).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C47.61  Synthetic cathinone -induced psychotic disorder with delusions  
Synthetic cathinone psychotic disorder with delusions is characterised by the 
prese nce of delusions that are judged to be the direct consequence of synthetic 
cathinone use. Neither hallucinations nor other psychotic symptoms are present. 
The symptoms do not occur exclusively during hypnogogic or hypnopompic states, 
are not better account ed for by another mental and behavioural disorder (e.g., 
schizophrenia), and are not due to another disorder or disease classified elsewhere 
(e.g., epilepsies with visual symptoms).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C47.62  Synthetic cathinone -induced psychotic disorder with mixed psychotic symptoms  
Synthetic cathinone -induced psychotic disorder with mixed psychotic symptoms is 
characterised by the presence of multiple psychotic symptoms, primarily 
hallucinations and delusions, when these are ju dged to be the direct consequence 
of synthetic cathinone use. The symptoms do not occur exclusively during 
hypnogogic or hypnopompic states, are not better accounted for by another mental 
and behavioural disorder (e.g., Schizophrenia), and are not due to a nother disorder 
or disease classified elsewhere (e.g., epilepsies with visual symptoms).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C47.6Z  Synthetic cathinone -induced psychotic disorder, unspecified  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 504  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C47.7  Certain specified synthetic cathinone -induced mental or behavioural 
disorders  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C47.70  Synthetic c athinone -induced mood disorder  
Synthetic cathinone -induced mood disorder is characterised by mood symptoms 
(e.g., depressed or elevated mood, decreased engagement in pleasurable activities, 
increased or decreased energy levels) that develop during or soon after intoxication 
with or withdrawal from synthetic cathinones. The intensity or duration of the 
symptoms is substantially in excess of mood disturbances that are characteristic of 
Synthetic cathinone intoxication or Synthetic cathinone withdrawal. The am ount and 
duration of synthetic cathinone use must be capable of producing mood symptoms. 
The symptoms are not better explained by a primary mental disorder (e.g., a 
Depressive disorder, a Bipolar disorder, Schizoaffective disorder), as might be the 
case if  the mood symptoms preceded the onset of the synthetic cathinone use, if 
the symptoms persist for a substantial period of time after cessation of the synthetic 
cathinone use or withdrawal, or if there is other evidence of a pre -existing primary 
mental diso rder with mood symptoms (e.g., a history of prior episodes not 
associated with synthetic cathinone use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C47.71  Synthetic cathinone -induced anxiety disorder  
Synthetic cathinone -induced anxiety disorder is char acterised by anxiety symptoms 
(e.g., apprehension or worry, fear, physiological symptoms of excessive autonomic 
arousal, avoidance behaviour) that develop during or soon after intoxication with or 
withdrawal from synthetic cathinones. The intensity or dura tion of the symptoms is 
substantially in excess of anxiety symptoms that are characteristic of Synthetic 
cathinone intoxication or Synthetic cathinone withdrawal. The amount and duration 
of synthetic cathinone use must be capable of producing anxiety sympt oms. The 
symptoms are not better explained by a primary mental disorder (e.g., an Anxiety 
and fear -related disorder, a Depressive disorder with prominent anxiety symptoms), 
as might be the case if the anxiety symptoms preceded the onset of the synthetic 
cathinone use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial period of time after 
cessation of the synthetic cathinone use or withdrawal, or if there is other evidence 
of a pre -existing primary mental disorder with anxiety symptoms (e.g., a history of 
prior epis odes not associated with synthetic cathinone use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 ICD-11 MMS  505 
 6C47.72  Synthetic cathinone -induced obsessive -compulsive or related syndrome  
Synthetic cathinone -induced obsessive -compulsive or related disorder is 
characteri sed by either repetitive intrusive thoughts or preoccupations, normally 
associated with anxiety and typically accompanied by repetitive behaviours 
performed in response, or by recurrent and habitual actions directed at the 
integument (e.g., hair pulling, s kin picking) that develop during or soon after 
intoxication with or withdrawal from synthetic cathinones. The intensity or duration 
of the symptoms is substantially in excess of analogous disturbances that are 
characteristic of Synthetic cathinone intoxica tion or Synthetic cathinone withdrawal. 
The amount and duration of synthetic cathinone use must be capable of producing 
obsessive -compulsive or related symptoms. The symptoms are not better explained 
by a primary mental disorder (in particular an Obsessive -compulsive or related 
disorder), as might be the case if the symptoms preceded the onset of the synthetic 
cathinone use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial period of time after 
cessation of the synthetic cathinone use or withdrawal, or if there is other evidence 
of a pre -existing primary mental disorder with obsessive -compulsive or related 
symptoms (e.g., a history of prior episodes not associated with synthetic cathinone 
use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C47.73  Synthetic cathinon e-induced impulse control disorder  
Synthetic cathinone -induced impulse control disorder is characterised by 
persistently repeated behaviours in which there is recurrent failure to resist an 
impulse, drive, or urge to perform an act that is rewarding to the  person, at least in 
the short -term, despite longer -term harm either to the individual or to others (e.g., 
fire setting or stealing without apparent motive, repetitive sexual behaviour, 
aggressive outbursts) that develop during or soon after intoxication w ith or 
withdrawal from synthetic cathinones. The intensity or duration of the symptoms is 
substantially in excess of disturbances of impulse control that are characteristic of 
Synthetic cathinone intoxication or Synthetic cathinone withdrawal. The amount a nd 
duration of synthetic cathinone use must be capable of producing disturbances of 
impulse control. The symptoms are not better explained by a primary mental 
disorder (e.g., an Impulse control disorder, a Disorder due to addictive behaviours), 
as might be  the case if the impulse control disturbances preceded the onset of the 
synthetic cathinone use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial period of time after 
cessation of the synthetic cathinone use or withdrawal, or if there is other evidence 
of a pre -existing primary mental disorder with impulse control symptoms (e.g., a 
history of prior episodes not associated with synthetic cathinone use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C47.Y  Other specified disorders due to use of synthetic cathinones  
 
6C47.Z  Disorders due to use of synthetic cathinones, unspecified  
 506  ICD-11 MMS  
   6C48   Disorders due to use of caffeine  
Disorders due to use of caffeine are characterised by the pattern and consequences 
of caffeine use. Caffeine is a mild psychostimulant and diuretic that is found in the 
beans of the coffee plant (Coffea species) and is a constituent of coffee, cola drinks,  
chocolate, a range of proprietary 'energy drinks' and weight -loss aids. It is the most 
commonly used psychoactive substance worldwide and several clinical conditions 
related to its use are described, although severe disorders are comparatively rare 
consid ering its ubiquity. Caffeine Intoxication related to consumption of relatively 
higher doses (i.e., > 1 g per day) is described. Caffeine Withdrawal is common upon 
cessation of use among individuals who have used caffeine for a prolonged period 
or in large amounts. Caffeine -Induced Anxiety Disorder has been described, often 
following intoxication or heavy use.  
Exclusions:  Disorders due to use of stimulants including amphetamines, 
methamphetamine or methcathinone (6C46)  
Hazardous use of caffeine (QE11.5)  
 
6C48.0 Episode of harmful use of caffeine  
An episode of caffeine use that has caused damage to a person’s physical or 
mental health. Harm to health of the individual occurs due to one or more of the 
following: (1) direct or secondary toxic effects on body org ans and systems; or (2) a 
harmful route of administration. This diagnosis should not be made if the harm is 
attributed to a known pattern of caffeine use.  
Exclusions:  Harmful pattern of use of caffeine (6C48.1)  
 
6C48.1  Harmful pattern of use of caffeine  
A pattern of caffeine use that has caused clinically significant harm to a person’s 
physical or mental health or in which caffeine -induced behaviour has caused 
clinically significant harm to the health of other people. The pattern of caffeine use is 
evident over a period of at least 12 months if use is episodic and at least one month 
if use is continuous (i.e., daily or almost daily). Harm may be caused by the 
intoxicating effects of caffeine, the direct or secondary toxic effects on body organs 
and systems, or a harmful route of administration.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of caffeine (6C48.0)  
 
6C48.10  Harmful pattern of use of caffeine, episodic  
A pattern of episodic or intermittent caffeine use that has caused damage to a 
person’s physical or mental health. The pattern of episodic caffeine use is evident 
over a period of at least 12 months. Harm to health of the individual occurs due to 
one or mo re of the following: (1) direct or secondary toxic effects on body organs 
and systems; or (2) a harmful route of administration.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of caffeine (6C48.0)  
 
6C48.11  Harmful pattern of use of caffeine, continuous  
A pattern of co ntinuous (daily or almost daily) caffeine use that has caused damage 
to a person’s physical or mental health. The pattern of continuous caffeine use is 
evident over a period of at least one month. Harm to health of the individual occurs 
due to one or more of the following: (1) direct or secondary toxic effects on body 
organs and systems; or (2) a harmful route of administration.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of caffeine (6C48.0)  
 ICD-11 MMS  507 
 6C48.1Z  Harmful pattern of use of caffeine, unspecified  
 
6C48.2  Caffeine intoxication  
Caffeine intoxication is a clinically significant transient condition that develops 
during or shortly after the consumption of caffeine that is characterised by 
disturbances in consciousness, cognition, perception, affect, behaviour, or 
coordi nation. These disturbances are caused by the known pharmacological effects 
of caffeine and their intensity is closely related to the amount of caffeine consumed. 
They are time -limited and abate as caffeine is cleared from the body. Presenting 
features may include restlessness, anxiety, excitement, insomnia, flushed face, 
tachycardia, diuresis, gastrointestinal disturbances, muscle twitching, psychomotor 
agitation, perspiration or chills, and nausea or vomiting. Cardiac arrhythmias may 
occur. Disturbances ty pical of intoxication tend to occur at relatively higher doses 
(e.g., > 1 g per day). Very high doses of caffeine (e.g., > 5 g) can result in 
respiratory distress or seizures and can be fatal.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C48.3  Caffeine w ithdrawal  
Caffeine withdrawal is a clinically significant cluster of symptoms, behaviours and/or 
physiological features, varying in degree of severity and duration, that occurs upon 
cessation or reduction of use of caffeine (typically in the form of coffee, caffeina ted 
drinks, or as an ingredient in certain over -the-counter medications) in individuals 
who have used caffeine for a prolonged period or in large amounts. Presenting 
features of Caffeine withdrawal may include headache, marked fatigue or 
drowsiness, irrita bility, depressed or dysphoric mood, nausea or vomiting, and 
difficulty concentrating.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C48.4  Certain specified caffeine -induced mental or behavioural disorders  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C48.40  Caffeine -induced anxiety disorder  
Caffeine -induced anxiety disorder is characterised by anxiety symptoms (e.g., 
apprehension or worry, fear, physiological symptoms of excessive autonomic 
arousal, avoidance behaviour) that develop during or soon after intoxication with or 
withdrawal from caffeine. The intensity or duration of the symptoms is substantially 
in excess of anxiety symptoms that are characteristic of Caffeine intoxication or 
Caffeine withdrawal. The amount and duration of caffeine use must be  capable of 
producing anxiety symptoms. The symptoms are not better explained by a primary 
mental disorder (e.g., an Anxiety and fear -related disorder, a Depressive disorder 
with prominent anxiety symptoms), as might be the case if the anxiety symptoms 
preceded the onset of the caffeine use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial 
period of time after cessation of the caffeine use or withdrawal, or if there is other 
evidence of a pre -existing primary mental disorder with anxiety symptoms (e.g., a 
history of prior episodes not associated with caffeine use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C48.Y  Other specified disorders due to use of caffeine  
 
6C48.Z  Disorders due to use of caffeine, unspecified  
 508  ICD-11 MMS  
   6C49   Disorders due to use of hallucinogens  
Disorders due to use of hallucinogens are characterised by the pattern and 
consequences of hallucinogen use. Several thousand compounds have 
hallucinogenic properties, many of which are found in plants (e.g., mescaline) and 
fungi (e.g., psilocybin) or are  chemically synthesized (e.g., lysergic acid 
diethylamide [LSD]). These compounds have primarily hallucinogenic properties, 
but some may also be stimulants. Much of the morbidity associated with these 
compounds arises from the acute effects related to Hall ucinogen Intoxication. 
Hallucinogen Dependence is rare and Hallucinogen Withdrawal is not described. 
Among the mental disorders related to hallucinogen use, Hallucinogen -Induced 
Psychotic Disorder is the most frequently seen, although worldwide it is still  fairly 
uncommon.  
 
6C49.0  Episode of harmful use of hallucinogens  
An episode of hallucinogen use that has caused damage to a person’s physical or 
mental health or has resulted in behaviour leading to harm to the health of others. 
Harm to health of the indi vidual occurs due to one or more of the following: (1) 
behaviour related to intoxication; (2) direct or secondary toxic effects on body 
organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of administration. Harm to health of 
others includes any form of physical har m, including trauma, or mental disorder that 
is directly attributable to behaviour due to hallucinogen intoxication on the part of 
the person to whom the diagnosis of single episode of harmful use applies. This 
diagnosis should not be made if the harm is a ttributed to a known pattern of 
hallucinogen use.  
Exclusions:  Hallucinogen dependence (6C49.2)  
Harmful pattern of use of hallucinogens (6C49.1)  
 
6C49.1  Harmful pattern of use of hallucinogens  
A pattern of use of hallucinogens that has caused damage to a person’s physical or 
mental health or has resulted in behaviour leading to harm to the health of others. 
The pattern of hallucinogen use is evident over a period of at least 12 months if 
substan ce use is episodic or at least one month if use is continuous (i.e., daily or 
almost daily). Harm to health of the individual occurs due to one or more of the 
following: (1) behaviour related to intoxication; (2) direct or secondary toxic effects 
on body o rgans and systems; or (3) a harmful route of administration. Harm to 
health of others includes any form of physical harm, including trauma, or mental 
disorder that is directly attributable to behaviour related to hallucinogen intoxication 
on the part of th e person to whom the diagnosis of Harmful pattern of use of 
hallucinogens applies.  
Exclusions:  Hallucinogen dependence (6C49.2)  
Episode of harmful use of hallucinogens (6C49.0)  
 ICD-11 MMS  509 
 6C49.10  Harmful pattern of use of hallucinogens, episodic  
A pattern of episodic or intermittent use of hallucinogens that has caused damage 
to a person’s physical or mental health or has resulted in behaviour leading to harm 
to the health of others. The pattern of episodic hallucinogen use is evident over a 
perio d of at least 12 months. Harm to health of the individual occurs due to one or 
more of the following: (1) behaviour related to intoxication; (2) direct or secondary 
toxic effects on body organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of administration. 
Harm to  health of others includes any form of physical harm, including trauma, or 
mental disorder that is directly attributable to behaviour related to hallucinogen 
intoxication on the part of the person to whom the diagnosis of Harmful pattern of 
use of hallucin ogens applies.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of hallucinogens (6C49.0)  
Hallucinogen dependence (6C49.2)  
 
6C49.11  Harmful pattern of use of hallucinogens, continuous  
A pattern of continuous (daily or almost daily) use of hallucinogens that has caused 
damage to a person’s physical or mental health or has resulted in behaviour leading 
to harm to the health of others. The pattern of continuous hallucinogen use is 
evident over a period of at least one month. Harm to health of the individual occurs 
due to on e or more of the following: (1) behaviour related to intoxication; (2) direct 
or secondary toxic effects on body organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of 
administration. Harm to health of others includes any form of physical harm, 
including trauma, or  mental disorder that is directly attributable to behaviour related 
to hallucinogen intoxication on the part of the person to whom the diagnosis of 
Harmful use of hallucinogens applies.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of hallucinogens (6C49.0)  
Hallucino gen dependence (6C49.2)  
 
6C49.1Z  Harmful pattern of use of hallucinogens, unspecified  
 
6C49.2  Hallucinogen dependence  
Hallucinogen dependence is a disorder of regulation of hallucinogen use arising 
from repeated or continuous use of hallucinogens. The char acteristic feature is a 
strong internal drive to use hallucinogens, which is manifested by impaired ability to 
control use, increasing priority given to use over other activities and persistence of 
use despite harm or negative consequences. These experienc es are often 
accompanied by a subjective sensation of urge or craving to use hallucinogens. The 
features of dependence are usually evident over a period of at least 12 months but 
the diagnosis may be made if hallucinogens use is continuous (daily or almost  daily) 
for at least 3 months.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of hallucinogens (6C49.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of hallucinogens (6C49.1)  
 
6C49.20  Hallucinogen dependence, current use  
Current hallucinogen dependence with hallucinogen use within the past  month.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of hallucinogens (6C49.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of hallucinogens (6C49.1)  
 510  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C49.21  Hallucinogen dependence, early full remission  
After a diagnosis of Hallucinogen dependence, and often following a treatment 
episo de or other intervention (including self -help intervention), the individual has 
been abstinent from hallucinogens during a period lasting between 1 and 12 
months.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of hallucinogens (6C49.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of halluc inogens (6C49.1)  
 
6C49.22  Hallucinogen dependence, sustained partial remission  
After a diagnosis of Hallucinogen dependence, and often following a treatment 
episode or other intervention (including self -help intervention), there is a significant 
reduction in hallucinogen consumption for more than 12 months, such that even 
though intermittent or continuing hallucinogen use has occurred during this period, 
the definitional requirements for dependence have not been met.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of hallucinogens (6C49.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of hallucinogens (6C49.1)  
 
6C49.23  Hallucinogen dependence, sustained full remission  
After a diagnosis of Hallucinogen dependence, and often following a treatment 
episode or other inte rvention (including self -intervention), the person has been 
abstinent from hallucinogens for 12 months or longer.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of hallucinogens (6C49.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of hallucinogens (6C49.1)  
 
6C49.2Z  Hallucinogen dependence, unspecified  
 
6C49.3  Hallucinogen intoxication  
Hallucinogen intoxication is a clinically significant transient condition that develops 
during or shortly after the consumption  of hallucinogens that is characterised by 
disturbances in consciousness, cognition, perception, affect, behaviour, or 
coordination. These disturbances are caused by the known pharmacological effects 
of hallucinogens and their intensity is closely related to the amount of hallucinogen 
consumed. They are time -limited and abate as the hallucinogen is cleared from the 
body. Presenting features may include hallucinations, illusions, perceptual changes 
such as depersonalisation, derealization, or synesthesias (b lending of senses, such 
as a visual stimulus evoking a smell), anxiety, depressed or dysphoric mood, ideas 
of reference, paranoid ideation, impaired judgment, palpitations, sweating, blurred 
vision, tremors and incoordination. Physical signs may include ta chycardia, elevated 
blood pressure, and pupillary dilatation. In rare instances, hallucinogen intoxication 
may facilitate suicidal ideation and behaviour.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
Exclusions:  hallucinogens poisoning (NE60)  
Possession tr ance disorder (6B63)  
 ICD-11 MMS  511 
 6C49.4  Hallucinogen -induced delirium  
Hallucinogen -induced delirium is characterised by an acute state of disturbed 
attention and awareness with specific features of delirium that develops during or 
soon after substance intoxication or  during the use of hallucinogens. The amount 
and duration of hallucinogen use must be capable of producing delirium. The 
symptoms are not better explained by a primary mental disorder, by use of or 
withdrawal from a different substance, or by another healt h condition that is not 
classified under Mental, behavioural and neurodevelopmental disorders.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C49.5  Hallucinogen -induced psychotic disorder  
Hallucinogen -induced psychotic disorder is characterised by psychoti c symptoms 
(e.g. delusions, hallucinations, disorganised thinking, grossly disorganised 
behaviour) that develop during or soon after intoxication with hallucinogens. The 
intensity or duration of the symptoms is substantially in excess of psychotic -like 
disturbances of perception, cognition, or behaviour that are characteristic of 
hallucinogen intoxication. The amount and duration of hallucinogen use must be 
capable of producing psychotic symptoms. The symptoms are not better explained 
by a primary mental di sorder (e.g. Schizophrenia, a Mood disorder with psychotic 
symptoms), as might be the case if the psychotic symptoms preceded the onset of 
the hallucinogen use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial period of time after 
cessation of the hallucinogen us e, or if there is other evidence of a pre -existing 
primary mental disorder with psychotic symptoms (e.g. a history of prior episodes 
not associated with hallucinogen use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
Exclusions:  Psychotic disorder induced by other specified psychoactive 
substance (6C4E.6)  
Alcohol -induced psychotic disorder (6C40.6)  
 
6C49.6  Certain specified hallucinogen -induced mental or behavioural disorders  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C49.60  Hallucinogen -induced mood disorder  
Hallucinogen -induced mood disorder is characterised by mood symptoms (e.g., 
depressed or elevated mood, decreased engagement in pleasurable activities, 
increased or decreased energy levels) that develop during or soon aft er intoxication 
with hallucinogens. The intensity or duration of the symptoms is substantially in 
excess of mood disturbances that are characteristic of hallucinogen intoxication. 
The amount and duration of hallucinogen use must be capable of producing moo d 
symptoms. The symptoms are not better explained by a primary mental disorder 
(e.g., a Depressive disorder, a Bipolar disorder, Schizoaffective disorder), as might 
be the case if the mood symptoms preceded the onset of the hallucinogen use, if 
the symptom s persist for a substantial period of time after cessation of the 
hallucinogen use, or if there is other evidence of a pre -existing primary mental 
disorder with mood symptoms (e.g., a history of prior episodes not associated with 
hallucinogen use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 512  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C49.61  Hallucinogen -induced anxiety disorder  
Hallucinogen -induced anxiety disorder is characterised by anxiety symptoms (e.g., 
apprehension or worry, fear, physiological symptoms of excessive autonomic 
arousal, avoid ance behaviour) that develop during or soon after intoxication with 
hallucinogens. The intensity or duration of the symptoms is substantially in excess 
of anxiety symptoms that are characteristic of hallucinogen intoxication. The amount 
and duration of hal lucinogen use must be capable of producing anxiety symptoms. 
The symptoms are not better explained by a primary mental disorder (e.g., an 
Anxiety and Fear -Related Disorder, a Depressive Disorder with prominent anxiety 
symptoms), as might be the case if the  anxiety symptoms preceded the onset of the 
hallucinogen use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial period of time after 
cessation of the hallucinogen use, or if there is other evidence of a pre -existing 
primary mental disorder with anxiety symptoms (e .g., a history of prior episodes not 
associated with hallucinogen use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C49.Y  Other specified disorders due to use of hallucinogens  
 
6C49.Z  Disorders due to use of hallucinogens, unspecified  
 
  6C4A   Disorder s due to use of nicotine  
Disorders due to use of nicotine are characterised by the pattern and consequences 
of nicotine use. Nicotine is the active dependence -producing constituent of the 
tobacco plant, Nicotiana tabacum. Nicotine is used overwhelmingly th rough 
smoking cigarettes. Increasingly, it is also used in electronic cigarettes that vaporize 
nicotine dissolved in a carrier solvent for inhalation (i.e., “vaping”). Pipe smoking, 
chewing tobacco and inhaling snuff are minor forms of use. Nicotine is a h ighly 
potent addictive compound and is the third most common psychoactive substance 
used worldwide after caffeine and alcohol. Nicotine Dependence and Nicotine 
Withdrawal are well described and Nicotine -Induced Mental Disorders are 
recognized.  
 
6C4A.0  Epis ode of harmful use of nicotine  
An episode of nicotine use that has caused damage to a person’s physical or 
mental health. Harm to health of the individual occurs due to one or more of the 
following: (1) direct or secondary toxic effects on body organs and systems; or (2) a 
harmful route  of administration. This diagnosis should not be made if the harm is 
attributed to a known pattern of nicotine use.  
Exclusions:  Nicotine dependence (6C4A.2)  
Harmful pattern of use of nicotine (6C4A.1)  
Harmful effects of or exposure to noxious substances, c hiefly 
nonmedicinal as to source, not elsewhere classified 
(NE61)  
 ICD-11 MMS  513 
 6C4A.1  Harmful pattern of use of nicotine  
A pattern of nicotine use that has caused damage to a person’s physical or mental 
health. The pattern of nicotine use is evident over a period of a t least 12 months if 
substance use is episodic or at least one month if use is continuous (i.e., daily or 
almost daily). Harm to health of the individual occurs due to one or more of the 
following: (1) direct or secondary toxic effects on body organs and s ystems; or (2) a 
harmful route of administration.  
Exclusions:  Nicotine dependence (6C4A.2)  
Episode of harmful use of nicotine (6C4A.0)  
 
6C4A.10  Harmful pattern of use of nicotine, episodic  
A pattern of episodic or intermittent nicotine use that has caused damage to a 
person’s physical or mental health. The pattern of episodic nicotine use is evident 
over a period of at least 12 months. Harm to health of the individual occurs due to 
one or mo re of the following: (1) direct or secondary toxic effects on body organs 
and systems; or (2) a harmful route of administration.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of nicotine (6C4A.0)  
Nicotine dependence (6C4A.2)  
 
6C4A.11  Harmful pattern of use of nicotin e, continuous  
A pattern of continuous (daily or almost daily) nicotine use that has caused damage 
to a person’s physical or mental health. The pattern of continuous nicotine use is 
evident over a period of at least one month. Harm to health of the individu al occurs 
due to one or more of the following: (1) direct or secondary toxic effects on body 
organs and systems; or (2) a harmful route of administration.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of nicotine (6C4A.0)  
Nicotine dependence (6C4A.2)  
 
6C4A.1Z  Harmful  pattern of use of nicotine, unspecified  
 
6C4A.2  Nicotine dependence  
Nicotine dependence is a disorder of regulation of nicotine use arising from 
repeated or continuous use of nicotine. The characteristic feature is a strong 
internal drive to use nicotine,  which is manifested by impaired ability to control use, 
increasing priority given to use over other activities and persistence of use despite 
harm or negative consequences. These experiences are often accompanied by a 
subjective sensation of urge or cravi ng to use nicotine. Physiological features of 
dependence may also be present, including tolerance to the effects of nicotine, 
withdrawal symptoms following cessation or reduction in use of nicotine, or 
repeated use of nicotine or pharmacologically similar substances to prevent or 
alleviate withdrawal symptoms. The features of dependence are usually evident 
over a period of at least 12 months but the diagnosis may be made if nicotine use is 
continuous (daily or almost daily) for at least 3 months.  
Exclusions : Episode of harmful use of nicotine (6C4A.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of nicotine (6C4A.1)  
 514  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C4A.20  Nicotine dependence, current use  
Current nicotine dependence with nicotine use within the past month.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of nicotine (6C4A.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of nicotine (6C4A.1)  
 
6C4A.21  Nicotine dependence, early full remission  
After a diagnosis of nicotine dependence, and often following a treatment episode 
or other intervention (including self -help intervention), the individual has b een 
abstinent from nicotine during a period lasting between 1 and 12 months.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of nicotine (6C4A.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of nicotine (6C4A.1)  
 
6C4A.22  Nicotine dependence, sustained partial remission  
After a diagnosis of nicotine dependence, and often following a treatment episode 
or other intervention (including self -help intervention), there is a significant reduction 
in nicotine consumption for more than 12 months, such that even though 
intermittent or continuing nicoti ne use has occurred during this period, the 
definitional requirements for dependence have not been met.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of nicotine (6C4A.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of nicotine (6C4A.1)  
 
6C4A.23  Nicotine dependence, sustained full remission  
After a diagnosis of nicotine dependence, and often following a treatment episode 
or other intervention (including self -intervention), the person has been abstinent 
from nicotine for 12 months or longer.  
Exclus ions:  Episode of harmful use of nicotine (6C4A.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of nicotine (6C4A.1)  
 
6C4A.2Z  Nicotine dependence, unspecified  
 
6C4A.3  Nicotine intoxication  
Nicotine intoxication is a clinically significant transient condition that develops during  
or shortly after the consumption of nicotine that is characterised by disturbances in 
consciousness, cognition, perception, affect, behaviour, or coordination. These 
disturbances are caused by the known pharmacological effects of nicotine and their 
intens ity is closely related to the amount of nicotine consumed. They are time -
limited and abate as nicotine is cleared from the body. Presenting features may 
include restlessness, psychomotor agitation, anxiety, cold sweats, headache, 
insomnia, palpitations, pa resthesias, nausea or vomiting, abdominal cramps, 
confusion, bizarre dreams, burning sensations in the mouth, and salivation. In rare 
instances, paranoid ideation, perceptual disturbances, convulsions or coma may 
occur. Nicotine intoxication occurs more co mmonly in naïve (non -tolerant) users or 
among those taking higher than accustomed doses.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
Inclusions:  "Bad trips" due to nicotine  
Exclusions:  intoxication meaning poisoning (NE61)  
Possession trance disorder (6B63 ) 
 ICD-11 MMS  515 
 6C4A.4  Nicotine withdrawal  
Nicotine withdrawal is a clinically significant cluster of symptoms, behaviours and/or 
physiological features, varying in degree of severity and duration, that occurs upon 
cessation or reduction of use of nicotine (typically u sed as a constituent of tobacco) 
in individuals who have developed Nicotine dependence or have used nicotine for a 
prolonged period or in large amounts. Presenting features of Nicotine withdrawal 
may include dysphoric or depressed mood, insomnia, irritabil ity, anger, anxiety, 
difficulty concentrating, restlessness, bradycardia, increased appetite, and craving 
for tobacco (or other nicotine -containing products). Other physical symptoms may 
include increased cough and mouth ulceration.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4A.Y  Other specified disorders due to use of nicotine  
 
6C4A.Z  Disorders due to use of nicotine, unspecified  
 
  6C4B   Disorders due to use of volatile inhalants  
Disorders due to use of volatile inhalants are characterised by the pa ttern and 
consequences of volatile inhalant use. Volatile inhalants include a range of 
compounds that are in the gaseous or vapour phase at ambient temperatures and 
include various organic solvents, glues, gasoline (petrol), nitrites and gases such as 
nitrous oxide, trichloroethane, butane, toluene, fluorocarbons, ether and halothane. 
They have a range of pharmacological properties but are predominantly central 
nervous system depressants, with many also having vasoactive effects. They tend 
to be used by you nger persons and may be used when access to alternative 
psychoactive substances is difficult or impossible. Volatile Inhalant Intoxication is 
well recognized. Volatile inhalants have dependence -producing properties and 
Volatile Inhalant Dependence and Vola tile Inhalant Withdrawal is recognized 
although comparatively uncommon worldwide. Volatile Inhalant -Induced Mental 
Disorders are described. They may also cause neurocognitive impairment, including 
Dementia.  
 
6C4B.0  Episode of harmful use of volatile inhalants  
An episode of volatile inhalant use or unintentional exposure (e.g., occupational 
exposure) that has caused damage to a person’s physical or mental health or has 
resulted in behaviour leading to harm to the heal th of others. Harm to health of the 
individual occurs due to one or more of the following: (1) behaviour related to 
intoxication; (2) direct or secondary toxic effects on body organs and systems; or (3) 
a harmful route of administration. Harm to health of others includes any form of 
physical harm, including trauma, or mental disorder that is directly attributable to 
behaviour due to volatile inhalant intoxication on the part of the person to whom the 
diagnosis of single episode of harmful use applies. This diagnosis should not be 
made if the harm is attributed to a known pattern of volatile inhalant use.  
Exclusions:  Harmful pattern of use of volatile inhalants (6C4B.1)  
Volatile inhalant dependence (6C4B.2)  
 516  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C4B.1  Harmful pattern of use of volatile inhalants  
A pattern of volatile inhalant use that has caused damage to a person’s physical or 
mental health. The pattern of volatile inhalant use is evident over a period of at least 
12 months if substance use is episodic or at least one month if use is continuous 
(i.e., daily or almost daily). Harm to health of the individual occurs due to one or 
more of the following: (1) behaviour related to intoxication; (1) direct or secondary 
toxic effects on body organs and systems; or (2) a harmful route of administration. 
Harm to health of others includes any form of physical harm, including trauma, or 
mental disorder that is directly attributable to behaviour related to volatile inhalant 
intoxication on the part of the person to whom the diagnosis of Harmful pattern of 
use of volatile inhalants applies.  
Exclusions:  Volatile inhalant dependence (6C4B.2)  
Episode of harmful use of volatile inhalants (6C4B.0)  
 
6C4B.10  Harmful pattern of use of volatile inhalants, episodic  
A pattern of episodic or intermittent volatile inhalant use that has caused damage to 
a person’s physical or mental health or has resulted in behaviour leading to harm to 
the health of others. The pattern of episodic volatile inhalant use is evident over a  
period of at least 12 months. Harm to health of the individual occurs due to one or 
more of the following: (1) behaviour related to intoxication; (2) direct or secondary 
toxic effects on body organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of administration. 
Harm to health of others includes any form of physical harm, including trauma, or 
mental disorder that is directly attributable to behaviour related to volatile inhalant 
intoxication on the part of the person to whom the diagnosis of Harmful pattern of 
use of volatile inhalants applies.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of volatile inhalants (6C4B.0)  
Volatile inhalant dependence (6C4B.2)  
 
6C4B.11  Harmful pattern of use of volatile inhalants, continuous  
A pattern of continuous (daily or almost daily) volatil e inhalant use that has caused 
damage to a person’s physical or mental health or has resulted in behaviour leading 
to harm to the health of others. The pattern of continuous volatile inhalant use is 
evident over a period of at least one month. Harm to heal th of the individual occurs 
due to one or more of the following: (1) behaviour related to intoxication; (2) direct 
or secondary toxic effects on body organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of 
administration. Harm to health of others includes any form o f physical harm, 
including trauma, or mental disorder that is directly attributable to behaviour related 
to volatile inhalant intoxication on the part of the person to whom the diagnosis of 
Harmful pattern of use of volatile inhalants applies.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of volatile inhalants (6C4B.0)  
Volatile inhalant dependence (6C4B.2)  
 
6C4B.1Z  Harmful pattern of use of volatile inhalants, unspecified  
 ICD-11 MMS  517 
 6C4B.2  Volatile inhalant dependence  
Volatile inhalant dependence is a disorder of regulation of volatile inhalant use 
arising from repeated or continuous use of volatile inhalants. The characteristic 
feature is a strong internal drive to use volatile inhalants, which is manifested by 
impaired ability to control use, increasing priority given to use o ver other activities 
and persistence of use despite harm or negative consequences. These experiences 
are often accompanied by a subjective sensation of urge or craving to use volatile 
inhalants. Physiological features of dependence may also be present, inc luding 
tolerance to the effects of volatile inhalants, withdrawal symptoms following 
cessation or reduction in use of volatile inhalants, or repeated use of volatile 
inhalants or pharmacologically similar substances to prevent or alleviate withdrawal 
sympt oms. The features of dependence are usually evident over a period of at least 
12 months but the diagnosis may be made if volatile inhalant use is continuous 
(daily or almost daily) for at least 3 months.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of volatile inhal ants (6C4B.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of volatile inhalants (6C4B.1)  
 
6C4B.20  Volatile inhalant dependence, current use  
Current volatile inhalant dependence with volatile inhalant use within the past 
month.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of volatile inhalants (6C4B.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of volatile inhalants (6C4B.1)  
 
6C4B.21  Volatile inhalant dependence, early full  remission  
After a diagnosis of volatile inhalant dependence, and often following a treatment 
episode or other intervention (including self -help intervention), the individual has 
been abstinent from volatile inhalants during a period lasting between1 and 1 2 
months.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of volatile inhalants (6C4B.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of volatile inhalants (6C4B.1)  
 
6C4B.22  Volatile inhalant dependence, sustained partial remission  
After a diagnosis of Volatile inhalant dependence, and ofte n following a treatment 
episode or other intervention (including self -help intervention), there is a significant 
reduction in volatile inhalant consumption for more than 12 months, such that even 
though intermittent or continuing volatile inhalant use has occurred during this 
period, the definitional requirements for dependence have not been met.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of volatile inhalants (6C4B.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of volatile inhalants (6C4B.1)  
 
6C4B.23  Volatile inhalant dependence, sust ained full remission  
After a diagnosis of Volatile inhalant dependence, and often following a treatment 
episode or other intervention (including self -intervention), the person has been 
abstinent from volatile inhalants for 12 months or longer.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of volatile inhalants (6C4B.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of volatile inhalants (6C4B.1)  
 
6C4B.2Z  Volatile inhalant dependence, unspecified  
 518  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C4B.3  Volatile inhalant intoxication  
Volatile inhalant intoxication is a clinically significant transient condition that 
develops during or shortly after the consumption of a volatile inhalant that is 
characterised by disturbances in consciousness, cognition, perception, affect, 
behaviour, or  coordination. These disturbances are caused by the known 
pharmacological effects of volatile inhalants and their intensity is closely related to 
the amount of volatile inhalant consumed. They are time -limited and abate as the 
volatile inhalant is cleared from the body. Presenting features may include euphoria, 
impaired judgment, aggression, somnolence, stupor or coma, dizziness, tremor, 
lack of coordination, slurred speech, unsteady gait, lethargy and apathy, 
psychomotor retardation, and visual disturbance s. Muscle weakness and diplopia 
may occur. Use of volatile inhalants may cause cardiac arrhythmia, cardiac arrest, 
and death. Inhalants containing lead (e.g. some forms of petrol/gasoline) may cause 
confusion, irritability, coma and seizures.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
Exclusions:  Possession trance disorder (6B63)  
 
6C4B.4  Volatile inhalant withdrawal  
Volatile inhalant withdrawal is a clinically significant cluster of symptoms, 
behaviours and/or physiological features, varying in degree of severity and duration, 
that occurs upon cessation or reduction of use of volatile inhalants in individuals 
who have developed Volatile inhalant dependence or have used volatile inhalants 
for a prolonged period or in large amounts. Presenting features of Vo latile inhalant 
withdrawal may include insomnia, anxiety, irritability, dysphoric mood, shakiness, 
perspiration, nausea, and transient illusions.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4B.5  Volatile inhalant -induced delirium  
Volatile inhalant -induced delirium is characterised by an acute state of disturbed 
attention and awareness with specific features of delirium that develops during or 
soon after substance intoxication or withdrawal or duri ng the use of volatile 
inhalants. The amount and duration of volatile inhalant use must be capable of 
producing delirium. The symptoms are not better explained by a primary mental 
disorder, by use of or withdrawal from a different substance, or by another health 
condition that is not classified under Mental, behavioural and neurodevelopmental 
disorders.  
Coding Note:  This category should never be used in primary tabulation. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desire d to identify the 
presence of dementia in diseases classified elsewhere.  
When dementia is due to multiple aetiologies, code all that apply.  
 ICD-11 MMS  519 
 6C4B.6  Volatile inhalant -induced psychotic disorder  
Volatile inhalant -induced psychotic disorder is characterised b y psychotic symptoms 
(e.g. delusions, hallucinations, disorganized thinking, grossly disorganized 
behaviour) that develop during or soon after intoxication with or withdrawal from 
volatile inhalants. The intensity or duration of the symptoms is substantial ly in 
excess of psychotic -like disturbances of perception, cognition, or behaviour that are 
characteristic of Volatile inhalant intoxication or Volatile inhalant withdrawal. The 
amount and duration of volatile inhalant use must be capable of producing psyc hotic 
symptoms. The symptoms are not better explained by a primary mental disorder 
(e.g. Schizophrenia, a Mood disorder with psychotic symptoms), as might be the 
case if the psychotic symptoms preceded the onset of the volatile inhalant use, if 
the symptom s persist for a substantial period of time after cessation of the volatile 
inhalant use or withdrawal, or if there is other evidence of a pre -existing primary 
mental disorder with psychotic symptoms (e.g. a history of prior episodes not 
associated with vol atile inhalant use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4B.7  Certain specified volatile inhalants -induced mental or behavioural disorders  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4B.70  Volatile inhalant -induced mood disorder  
Volatile in halant -induced mood disorder is characterised by mood symptoms (e.g., 
depressed or elevated mood, decreased engagement in pleasurable activities, 
increased or decreased energy levels) that develop during or soon after intoxication 
with or withdrawal from v olatile inhalants. The intensity or duration of the symptoms 
is substantially in excess of mood disturbances that are characteristic of Volatile 
inhalant intoxication or Volatile inhalant withdrawal. The amount and duration of 
volatile inhalant use must be  capable of producing mood symptoms. The symptoms 
are not better explained by a primary mental disorder (e.g., a Depressive disorder, a 
Bipolar disorder, Schizoaffective disorder), as might be the case if the mood 
symptoms preceded the onset of the volatil e inhalant use, if the symptoms persist 
for a substantial period of time after cessation of the volatile inhalant use or 
withdrawal, or if there is other evidence of a pre -existing primary mental disorder 
with mood symptoms (e.g., a history of prior episod es not associated with volatile 
inhalant use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 520  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C4B.71  Volatile inhalant -induced anxiety disorder  
Volatile inhalant -induced anxiety disorder is characterised by anxiety symptoms 
(e.g., apprehension or worry, fe ar, physiological symptoms of excessive autonomic 
arousal, avoidance behaviour) that develop during or soon after intoxication with or 
withdrawal from volatile inhalants. The intensity or duration of the symptoms is 
substantially in excess of anxiety sympt oms that are characteristic of Volatile 
inhalant intoxication or Volatile inhalant withdrawal. The amount and duration of 
volatile inhalant use must be capable of producing anxiety symptoms. The 
symptoms are not better explained by a primary mental disorde r (e.g., an Anxiety 
and Fear -Related Disorder, a Depressive Disorder with prominent anxiety 
symptoms), as might be the case if the anxiety symptoms preceded the onset of the 
volatile inhalant use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial period of time af ter 
cessation of the volatile inhalant use or withdrawal, or if there is other evidence of a 
pre-existing primary mental disorder with anxiety symptoms (e.g., a history of prior 
episodes not associated with volatile inhalant use).  
Coding Note:  Code also th e causing condition  
 
6C4B.Y  Other specified disorders due to use of volatile inhalants  
 
6C4B.Z  Disorders due to use of volatile inhalants, unspecified  
 
  6C4C   Disorders due to use of MDMA or related drugs, including MDA  
Disorders due to use of MDMA or re lated drugs, including MDA are characterised 
by the pattern and consequences of MDMA or related drug use. MDMA is 
methylene -dioxymethamphetamine and is a common drug of abuse in many 
countries especially among young people. It is predominantly available in  tablet 
form known as ‘ecstasy’. Pharmacologically, MDMA has stimulant and 
empathogenic properties and these encourage its use among young people for 
social and other interactions. Considering its wide prevalence in many countries and 
among many sub -groups  of young people, MDMA and Related Drug Dependence 
and MDMA and Related Drug Withdrawal are comparatively uncommon. 
Substance -Induced Mental Disorders may arise from its use. Several analogues of 
MDMA exist, including MDA (methylene -dioxyamphetamine).  
Exclusions:  Hazardous use of MDMA or related drugs (QE11.6)  
 
6C4C.0  Episode of harmful use of MDMA or related drugs, including MDA  
An episode of use of MDMA or related drugs, including MDA, that has caused 
damage to a person’s physical or mental health or has resulted in behaviour leading 
to harm to the health of others. Harm to health of the individual occurs due to one or 
more of the following: (1) behaviour related to intoxication; (2) direct or secondary 
toxic effects on body organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of administration. 
Harm to health of others includes any form of physical harm, including trauma, or 
mental disorder that is directly attributable to behaviour due to intoxication with 
MDMA or related drugs, including MDA, on the part of th e person to whom the 
diagnosis of single episode of harmful use applies. This diagnosis should not be 
made if the harm is attributed to a known pattern of use of MDMA or related drugs, 
including MDA.  
Exclusions:  Harmful pattern of use of MDMA or related drugs, including 
MDA (6C4C.1)  
MDMA or related drug dependence, including MDA (6C4C.2)  
 ICD-11 MMS  521 
 6C4C.1  Harmful pattern of use of MDMA or related drugs, including MDA  
A pattern of use of MDMA or related drugs, including MDA,  that has caused 
damage to a person’s physical or mental health or has resulted in behaviour leading 
to harm to the health of others. The pattern of use of MDMA or related drugs is 
evident over a period of at least 12 months if use is episodic or at least one month if 
use is continuous (i.e., daily or almost daily). Harm to health of the individual occurs 
due to one or more of the following: (1) behaviour related to intoxication; (2) direct 
or secondary toxic effects on body organs and systems; or (3) a har mful route of 
administration. Harm to health of others includes any form of physical harm, 
including trauma, or mental disorder that is directly attributable to behaviour related 
to MDMA or related drug intoxication on the part of the person to whom the 
diagnosis of Harmful pattern of use of MDMA or related drugs, including MDA 
applies.  
Exclusions:  MDMA or related drug dependence, including MDA (6C4C.2)  
Episode of harmful use of MDMA or related drugs, including 
MDA (6C4C.0)  
 
6C4C.10  Harmful use of MDMA or r elated drugs, including MDA, episodic  
A pattern of episodic or intermittent use of MDMA or related drugs, including MDA, 
that has caused damage to a person’s physical or mental health or has resulted in 
behaviour leading to harm to the health of others. Th e pattern of episodic use of 
MDMA or related drugs is evident over a period of at least 12 months. Harm to 
health of the individual occurs due to one or more of the following: (1) behaviour 
related to intoxication; (2) direct or secondary toxic effects on body organs and 
systems; or (3) a harmful route of administration. Harm to health of others includes 
any form of physical harm, including trauma, or mental disorder that is directly 
attributable to behaviour related to MDMA or related drug intoxication on the part of 
the person to whom the diagnosis of Harmful pattern of use of MDMA or related 
drugs, including MDA applies.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of MDMA or related drugs, including 
MDA (6C4C.0)  
MDMA or related drug dependence, including MDA (6C4C .2) 
 
6C4C.11  Harmful use of MDMA or related drugs, including MDA, continuous  
A pattern of continuous (daily or almost daily) use of MDMA or related drugs, 
including MDA, that has caused damage to a person’s physical or mental health or 
has resulted in beha viour leading to harm to the health of others. The pattern of 
continuous use of MDMA or related drugs is evident over a period of at least one 
month. Harm to health of the individual occurs due to one or more of the following: 
(1) behaviour related to into xication; (2) direct or secondary toxic effects on body 
organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of administration. Harm to health of 
others includes any form of physical harm, including trauma, or mental disorder that 
is directly attributable to behavio ur related to MDMA or related drug intoxication on 
the part of the person to whom the diagnosis of Harmful pattern of use of MDMA or 
related drugs, including MDA applies.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of MDMA or related drugs, including 
MDA (6C4C.0)  
MDMA or related drug dependence, including MDA (6C4C.2)  
 
6C4C.1Z  Harmful pattern of use of MDMA or related drugs, including MDA, unspecified  
 522  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C4C.2  MDMA or related drug dependence, including MDA  
MDMA or related drug dependence, including MDA is a disorder of regulation of 
MDMA or related drug use arising from repeated or continuous use of MDMA or 
related drugs. The characteristic feature is a strong internal drive to use MDMA or 
related drugs, which is manifested by impaired ability to control use, increasi ng 
priority given to use over other activities and persistence of use despite harm or 
negative consequences. These experiences are often accompanied by a subjective 
sensation of urge or craving to use MDMA or related drugs. Physiological features 
of depend ence may also be present, including tolerance to the effects of MDMA or 
related drugs, withdrawal symptoms following cessation or reduction in use of 
MDMA or related drugs, or repeated use of MDMA or pharmacologically similar 
substances to prevent or allev iate withdrawal symptoms. The features of 
dependence are usually evident over a period of at least 12 months but the 
diagnosis may be made if MDMA or related drug use is continuous (daily or almost 
daily) for at least 3 months.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmf ul use of MDMA or related drugs, including 
MDA (6C4C.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of MDMA or related drugs, including 
MDA (6C4C.1)  
 
6C4C.20  MDMA or related drug dependence, including MDA, current use  
Current MDMA or related drug dependence, including MDA, with MDMA or related 
drug use within the past month.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of MDMA or related drugs, including 
MDA (6C4C.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of MDMA or related drugs, including 
MDA (6C4C.1)  
 
6C4C.21  MDMA or related drug dependence, including MDA, early full remission  
After a diagnosis of MDMA or related drug dependence, including MDA, and often 
following a treatment episode or other intervention (including self -help intervention), 
the individual has been abstinent from MDMA or related drug dependence, 
including MDA, during a period lasting from between 1 and 12 months.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of MDMA or related drugs, including 
MDA (6C4C.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of MDMA or  related drugs, including 
MDA (6C4C.1)  
 
6C4C.22  MDMA or related drug dependence, including MDA, sustained partial remission  
After a diagnosis of MDMA or related drug dependence, including MDA, and often 
following a treatment episode or other intervention ( including self -help intervention), 
there is a significant reduction in consumption of MDMA or related drugs, including 
MDA, for more than 12 months, such that even though intermittent or continuing use 
of MDMA or related drugs, including MDA, has occurred during this period, the 
definitional requirements for dependence have not been met.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of MDMA or related drugs, including 
MDA (6C4C.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of MDMA or related drugs, including 
MDA (6C4C.1)  
 ICD-11 MMS  523 
 6C4C.23  MDMA or related drug dependence, including MDA, sustained full remission  
After a diagnosis of MDMA or related drug dependence, including MDA, and often 
following a treatment episode or other intervention (including self -intervention), the 
person has been a bstinent from MDMA or related drugs, including MDA, for 12 
months or longer.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of MDMA or related drugs, including 
MDA (6C4C.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of MDMA or related drugs, including 
MDA (6C4C.1)  
 
6C4C.2Z  MDMA or relate d drug dependence, including MDA, unspecified  
 
6C4C.3  MDMA or related drug intoxication, including MDA  
MDMA or related drug intoxication, including MDA is a clinically significant transient 
condition that develops during or shortly after the consumption of  MDMA or related 
drugs that is characterised by disturbances in consciousness, cognition, perception, 
affect, behaviour, or coordination. These disturbances are caused by the known 
pharmacological effects of MDMA or related drugs and their intensity is clo sely 
related to the amount of MDMA or a related drug consumed. They are time -limited 
and abate as MDMA or a related drug is cleared from the body. Presenting features 
may include increased or inappropriate sexual interest and activity, anxiety, 
restlessnes s, agitation, and sweating. In rare instances, usually in severe 
intoxication, use of MDMA or related drugs, including MDA can result in dystonia 
and seizures. Sudden death is a rare but recognised complication.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4C.4  MDMA or related drug withdrawal, including MDA  
MDMA or related drug withdrawal, including MDA is a clinically significant cluster of 
symptoms, behaviours and/or physiological features, varying in degree of severity 
and duration, that occurs upon cessation or reduction of use of MDMA or related 
drugs in  individuals who have developed MDMA or related drug dependence or 
have used MDMA or related drugs for a prolonged period or in large amounts. 
Presenting features of MDMA or related drug withdrawal may include fatigue, 
lethargy, hypersomnia or insomnia, de pressed mood, anxiety, irritability, craving, 
difficulty in concentrating, and appetite disturbance.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4C.5  MDMA or related drug -induced delirium, including MDA  
MDMA or related drug -induced delirium, including MDA is characterised by an acute 
state of disturbed attention and awareness with specific features of delirium that 
develops during or soon after substance intoxication or during the use of MDMA or 
related drugs. The amount and duration of MDMA or related drug use must be 
capable of producing delirium. The symptoms are not better explained by a primary 
mental disorder, by use of or withdrawal from a different substance, or by another 
health condition that is not classified under Mental, behavioural and 
neurodevelopmental disorders.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 524  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C4C.6  MDMA or related drug -induced psychotic disorder, including MDA  
MDMA or related drug -induced psychotic disorder, including MDA is characterised 
by psychotic symptoms (e.g., delus ions, hallucinations, disorganised thinking, 
grossly disorganised behaviour) that develop during or soon after intoxication with 
MDMA or related drugs. The intensity or duration of the symptoms is substantially in 
excess of psychotic -like disturbances of p erception, cognition, or behaviour that are 
characteristic of MDMA or related drug intoxication. The amount and duration of 
MDMA or related drug use must be capable of producing psychotic symptoms. The 
symptoms are not better explained by a primary mental disorder (e.g., 
Schizophrenia, a Mood disorder with psychotic symptoms), as might be the case if 
the psychotic symptoms preceded the onset of the MDMA or related drug use, if the 
symptoms persist for a substantial period of time after cessation of the MDMA  or 
related drug use, or if there is other evidence of a pre -existing primary mental 
disorder with psychotic symptoms (e.g., a history of prior episodes not associated 
with MDMA or related drug use, including MDA).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condit ion 
 
6C4C.7  Certain specified MDMA or related drug -induced mental or behavioural 
disorders, including MDA  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4C.70  MDMA or related drug -induced mood disorder, including MDA  
MDMA or related drug -induced mood diso rder, including MDA is characterised by 
mood symptoms (e.g., depressed or elevated mood, decreased engagement in 
pleasurable activities, increased or decreased energy levels) that develop during or 
soon after intoxication with MDMA or related drugs. The in tensity or duration of the 
symptoms is substantially in excess of mood disturbances that are characteristic of 
MDMA or related drug intoxication, including MDA. The amount and duration of 
MDMA or related drug use must be capable of producing mood symptoms.  The 
symptoms are not better explained by a primary mental disorder (e.g., a Depressive 
disorder, a Bipolar disorder, Schizoaffective disorder), as might be the case if the 
mood symptoms preceded the onset of the MDMA or related drug use, if the 
symptoms p ersist for a substantial period of time after cessation of the MDMA or 
related drug use, or if there is other evidence of a pre -existing primary mental 
disorder with mood symptoms (e.g., a history of prior episodes not associated with 
MDMA or related drug use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 ICD-11 MMS  525 
 6C4C.71  MDMA or related drug -induced anxiety disorder  
MDMA or related drug -induced anxiety disorder, including MDA is characterised by 
anxiety symptoms (e.g., apprehension or worry, fear, physiological sy mptoms of 
excessive autonomic arousal, avoidance behaviour) that develop during or soon 
after intoxication with MDMA or related drugs. The intensity or duration of the 
symptoms is substantially in excess of anxiety symptoms that are characteristic of 
MDMA or related drug intoxication, including MDA. The amount and duration of 
MDMA or related drug use must be capable of producing anxiety symptoms. The 
symptoms are not better explained by a primary mental disorder (e.g., an Anxiety 
and fear -related disorder, a Depressive disorder with prominent anxiety symptoms), 
as might be the case if the anxiety symptoms preceded the onset of the MDMA or 
related drug use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial period of time after 
cessation of the MDMA or related drug us e, or if there is other evidence of a pre -
existing primary mental disorder with anxiety symptoms (e.g., a history of prior 
episodes not associated with MDMA or related drug use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4C.Y  Other specified disorder s due to use of MDMA or related drugs, including 
MDA  
 
6C4C.Z  Disorders due to use of MDMA or related drugs, including MDA, unspecified  
 
  6C4D   Disorders due to use of dissociative drugs including ketamine and 
phencyclidine [PCP]  
Disorders due to use of dissociative drugs including ketamine and phencyclidine 
[PCP] are characterised by the pattern and consequences of dissociative drug use. 
Dissociative drugs include ketamine and phencyclidine (PCP) and their 
(comparatively rare) che mical analogues. Ketamine is an intravenous anaesthetic 
widely used in low - and middle -income countries, particularly in Africa, and in 
emergency situations. Ketamine is also undergoing evaluation for treatment of 
some mental disorders (e.g., treatment res istant Depressive Disorders). It is also a 
widespread drug of nonmedical use in many countries and may be taken by the oral 
or nasal routes or injected. It produces a sense of euphoria but depending on the 
dose, emergent hallucinations and dissociation are  recognised as unpleasant side 
effects. Phencyclidine has a more restricted worldwide distribution and also has 
euphoric and dissociative effects. Its use may result in bizarre behaviour 
uncharacteristic for the individual, including self -harm. Dissociativ e Drug 
Dependence is described but a withdrawal syndrome is not recognized by most 
authorities. Several Dissociative Drug -Induced Mental Disorders are recognised.  
Exclusions:  Hazardous use of dissociative drugs including ketamine or 
PCP (QE11.7)  
 526  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C4D.0  Episode of harmful use of dissociative drugs including ketamine or PCP  
An episode of use of a dissociative drug, including Ketamine and PCP, that has 
caused damage to a person’s  physical or mental health or has resulted in behaviour 
leading to harm to the health of others. Harm to health of the individual occurs due 
to one or more of the following: (1) behaviour related to intoxication; (2) direct or 
secondary toxic effects on bo dy organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of 
administration. Harm to health of others includes any form of physical harm, 
including trauma, or mental disorder that is directly attributable to behaviour due to 
intoxication with a dissociative drug, incl uding Ketamine and PCP, on the part of the 
person to whom the diagnosis of single episode of harmful use applies. This 
diagnosis should not be made if the harm is attributed to a known pattern of use of 
dissociative drugs, including Ketamine and PCP.  
Exclu sions:  Dissociative drug dependence including ketamine or PCP 
(6C4D.2)  
Harmful pattern of use of dissociative drugs, including 
ketamine or PCP (6C4D.1)  
 
6C4D.1  Harmful pattern of use of dissociative drugs, including ketamine or PCP  
A pattern of use of diss ociative drugs, including ketamine and phencyclidine (PCP), 
that has caused damage to a person’s physical or mental health or has resulted in 
behaviour leading to harm to the health of others. The pattern of dissociative drug 
use is evident over a period o f at least 12 months if use is episodic or at least one 
month if use is continuous (i.e., daily or almost daily). Harm to health of the 
individual occurs due to one or more of the following: (1) behaviour related to 
intoxication; (2) direct or secondary to xic effects on body organs and systems; or (3) 
a harmful route of administration. Harm to health of others includes any form of 
physical harm, including trauma, or mental disorder that is directly attributable to 
behaviour related to dissociative drug into xication on the part of the person to whom 
the diagnosis of Harmful pattern of use of dissociative drugs, including ketamine 
and PCP applies.  
Exclusions:  Dissociative drug dependence including ketamine or PCP 
(6C4D.2)  
Episode of harmful use of dissociative  drugs including 
ketamine or PCP (6C4D.0)  
 ICD-11 MMS  527 
 6C4D.10  Harmful pattern of use of dissociative drugs including ketamine or PCP, episodic  
A pattern of episodic or intermittent use of dissociative drugs, including ketamine 
and phencyclidine (PCP), that has caused  damage to a person’s physical or mental 
health or has resulted in behaviour leading to harm to the health of others. The 
pattern of episodic use of dissociative drugs is evident over a period of at least 12 
months. Harm to health of the individual occurs due to one or more of the following: 
(1) behaviour related to intoxication; (2) direct or secondary toxic effects on body 
organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of administration. Harm to health of 
others includes any form of physical harm, including t rauma, or mental disorder that 
is directly attributable to behaviour related to dissociative drug intoxication on the 
part of the person to whom the diagnosis of Harmful pattern of use of dissociative 
drugs, including ketamine and PCP applies.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of dissociative drugs including 
ketamine or PCP (6C4D.0)  
Dissociative drug dependence including ketamine or PCP 
(6C4D.2)  
 
6C4D.11  Harmful pattern of use of dissociative drugs including ketamine or PCP, continuous  
A pattern of continu ous (daily or almost daily) use of dissociative drugs, including 
ketamine and phencyclidine (PCP), that has caused damage to a person’s physical 
or mental health or has resulted in behaviour leading to harm to the health of others. 
The pattern of continuou s use of dissociative drugs is evident over a period of at 
least one month. Harm to health of the individual occurs due to one or more of the 
following: (1) behaviour related to intoxication; (2) direct or secondary toxic effects 
on body organs and systems ; or (3) a harmful route of administration. Harm to 
health of others includes any form of physical harm, including trauma, or mental 
disorder that is directly attributable to behaviour related to dissociative drug 
intoxication on the part of the person to whom the diagnosis of Harmful pattern of 
use of dissociative drugs, including ketamine and PCP applies.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of dissociative drugs including 
ketamine or PCP (6C4D.0)  
Dissociative drug dependence including ketamine or PCP 
(6C4D .2) 
 
6C4D.1Z  Harmful pattern of use of dissociative drugs, including ketamine or PCP, unspecified  
 528  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C4D.2  Dissociative drug dependence including ketamine or PCP  
Dissociative drug dependence including ketamine or PCP is a disorder of regulation 
of dissociat ive drug use arising from repeated or continuous use of dissociative 
drugs. The characteristic feature is a strong internal drive to use dissociative drugs, 
which is manifested by impaired ability to control use, increasing priority given to 
use over other  activities and persistence of use despite harm or negative 
consequences. These experiences are often accompanied by a subjective 
sensation of urge or craving to use dissociative drugs. The features of dependence 
are usually evident over a period of at lea st 12 months but the diagnosis may be 
made if dissociative drugs use is continuous (daily or almost daily) for at least 3 
months.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of dissociative drugs including 
ketamine or PCP (6C4D.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of dissocia tive drugs, including 
ketamine or PCP (6C4D.1)  
 
6C4D.20  Dissociative drug dependence including Ketamine or PCP, current use  
Dissociative drug dependence including Ketamine and PCP, current use refers to 
use of dissociative drugs within the past month.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of dissociative drugs including 
ketamine or PCP (6C4D.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of dissociati ve drugs, including 
ketamine or PCP (6C4D.1)  
 
6C4D.21  Dissociative drug dependence including ketamine or PCP, early full remission  
After a diagnosis of Dissociative drug dependence including ketamine and PCP, 
and often following a treatment episode or othe r intervention (including self -help 
intervention), the individual has been abstinent from dissociative drugs during a 
period lasting between 1 and 12 months.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of dissociative drugs including 
ketamine or PCP (6C4D.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of dissociative drugs, including 
ketamine or PCP (6C4D.1)  
 
6C4D.22  Dissociative drug dependence including Ketamine or PCP, sustained partial 
remission  
After a diagnosis of Dissociative drug dependence including Ketamine and PCP, 
and often following a treatment episode or other intervention (including self -help 
intervention), there is a significant reduction in dissociative drug consumption for 
more than 12 months, such that even though intermittent or continuing dissociative 
drug use has occurred during this period, the definitional requirements for 
dependence have not been met.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of dissociative drugs including 
ketamine or PCP (6C4D.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of dissociative drugs, including 
ketamine or  PCP (6C4D.1)  
 ICD-11 MMS  529 
 6C4D.23  Dissociative drug dependence including Ketamine or PCP, sustained full remission  
After a diagnosis of Dissociative drug dependence including Ketamine and PCP, 
and often following a treatment episode or other intervention (including s elf-
intervention), the person has been abstinent from dissociative drugs for 12 months 
or longer.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of dissociative drugs including 
ketamine or PCP (6C4D.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of dissociative drugs, including 
ketamine o r PCP (6C4D.1)  
 
6C4D.2Z  Dissociative drug dependence including ketamine or PCP, unspecified  
 
6C4D.3  Dissociative drug intoxication including Ketamine or PCP  
Dissociative drug intoxication including Ketamine and PCP is a clinically significant 
transient con dition that develops during or shortly after the consumption of a 
dissociative drug that is characterised by disturbances in consciousness, cognition, 
perception, affect, behaviour, or coordination. These disturbances are caused by 
the known pharmacologica l effects of a dissociative drug and their intensity is 
closely related to the amount of the dissociative drug consumed. They are time -
limited and abate as the dissociative drug is cleared from the body. Presenting 
features may include aggression, impulsiv eness, unpredictability, anxiety, 
psychomotor agitation, impaired judgment, numbness or diminished responsiveness 
to pain, slurred speech, and dystonia. Physical signs include nystagmus (repetitive, 
uncontrolled eye movements), tachycardia, elevated blood pressure, numbness, 
ataxia, dysarthria, and muscle rigidity. In rare instances, use of dissociative drugs 
including Ketamine and PCP can result in seizures.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4D.4  Dissociative drug -induced delirium including k etamine or PCP  
Dissociative drug -induced delirium including Ketamine or PCP is characterised by 
an acute state of disturbed attention and awareness with specific features of 
delirium that develops during or soon after substance intoxication or during the use 
of dissociat ive drugs. The amount and duration of dissociative drug use must be 
capable of producing delirium. The symptoms are not better explained by a primary 
mental disorder, by use of or withdrawal from a different substance, or by another 
health condition that i s not classified under Mental, behavioural and 
neurodevelopmental disorders.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 530  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C4D.5  Dissociative drug -induced psychotic disorder including Ketamine or PCP  
Dissociative drug -induced psychotic disorder including Ketamine or PCP is 
characterised by psychotic symptoms (e.g., delusions, hallucinations, disorganised 
thinking, grossly disorganised behaviour) that develop during or soon after 
intoxication with dissociative drugs. The intensity or duration of the symptom s is 
substantially in excess of psychotic -like disturbances of perception, cognition, or 
behaviour that are characteristic of Dissociative drug intoxication. The amount and 
duration of Dissociative drug use must be capable of producing psychotic 
symptoms. The symptoms are not better explained by a primary mental disorder 
(e.g., Schizophrenia, a Mood disorder with psychotic symptoms), as might be the 
case if the psychotic symptoms preceded the onset of the dissociative drug use, if 
the symptoms persist for a  substantial period of time after cessation of the 
dissociative drug use, or if there is other evidence of a pre -existing primary mental 
disorder with psychotic symptoms (e.g., a history of prior episodes not associated 
with dissociative drug use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4D.6  Certain specified dissociative drug -induced mental or behavioural disorders, 
including ketamine and phencyclidine [PCP]  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4D.60  Dissociative drug -induced mood disor der including Ketamine or PCP  
Dissociative drug -induced mood disorder including Ketamine or PCP is 
characterised by mood symptoms (e.g., depressed or elevated mood, decreased 
engagement in pleasurable activities, increased or decreased energy levels) that 
develop during or soon after intoxication with dissociative drugs. The intensity or 
duration of the symptoms is substantially in excess of mood disturbances that are 
characteristic of Dissociative drug intoxication. The amount and duration of 
Dissociative drug use must be capable of producing mood symptoms. The 
symptoms are not better explained by a primary mental disorder (e.g., a Depressive 
disorder, a Bipolar disorder, Schizoaffective disorder), as might be the case if the 
mood symptoms preceded the onse t of the dissociative drug use, if the symptoms 
persist for a substantial period of time after cessation of the dissociative drug use, 
or if there is other evidence of a pre -existing primary mental disorder with mood 
symptoms (e.g., a history of prior epis odes not associated with dissociative drug 
use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 ICD-11 MMS  531 
 6C4D.61  Dissociative drug -induced anxiety disorder including Ketamine or PCP  
Dissociative drug -induced anxiety disorder including Ketamine or PCP is 
characterise d by anxiety symptoms (e.g., apprehension or worry, fear, physiological 
symptoms of excessive autonomic arousal, avoidance behaviour) that develop 
during or soon after intoxication with dissociative drugs. The intensity or duration of 
the symptoms is subst antially in excess of anxiety symptoms that are characteristic 
of Dissociative drug intoxication. The amount and duration of Dissociative drug use 
must be capable of producing anxiety symptoms. The symptoms are not better 
explained by a primary mental diso rder (e.g., an Anxiety and Fear -Related Disorder, 
a Depressive Disorder with prominent anxiety symptoms), as might be the case if 
the anxiety symptoms preceded the onset of the dissociative drug use, if the 
symptoms persist for a substantial period of time  after cessation of the dissociative 
drug use, or if there is other evidence of a pre -existing primary mental disorder with 
anxiety symptoms (e.g., a history of prior episodes not associated with dissociative 
drug use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing c ondition  
 
6C4D.Y  Other specified disorders due to use of dissociative drugs including ketamine 
and phencyclidine [PCP]  
 
6C4D.Z  Disorders due to use of dissociative drugs including ketamine and 
phencyclidine [PCP], unspecified  
 
  6C4E   Disorders due to use of other specified psychoactive substances, 
including medications  
Disorders due to use of other specified psychoactive substances, including 
medications are characterised by the pattern and consequences of psychoactive 
substances that are not included among the major substance classes specifically 
identified. Examples include khat, antidepressants, medications with anticholinergic 
properties (e.g., benztropine), and some antihistamines.  
 
6C4E.0  Episode of harmful use of other specified psychoactive substance  
An episode of use of a specified psychoactive substance or medication that is not 
included in the other substance classes specifically identified under Disorders Due 
to Substance Use that has caused damage to a person’s physical or m ental health 
or has resulted in behaviour leading to harm to the health of others. Harm to health 
of the individual occurs due to one or more of the following: (1) behaviour related to 
substance intoxication or psychoactive medication use; (2) direct or se condary toxic 
effects on body organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of administration. Harm 
to health of others includes any form of physical harm, including trauma, or mental 
disorder that is directly attributable to behaviour related to substance in toxication or 
psychoactive medication use on the part of the person to whom the diagnosis of 
single episode of harmful use of other specified psychoactive substance applies. 
This diagnosis should not be made if the harm is attributed to a known pattern of 
use of the specified psychoactive substance.  
Exclusions:  Harmful pattern of use of other specified psychoactive 
substance (6C4E.1)  
Other specified psychoactive substance dependence (6C4E.2)  
 532  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C4E.1  Harmful pattern of use of other specified psychoactive substance  
A pattern of use of a specified psychoactive substance or medication that is not 
included in the other substance classes specifically identified under Disorders Due 
to Substance Use that has caused damage to a person’s physical or mental health 
or has resulted in behaviour leading to harm to the health of others. The pattern of 
substance use is evident over a period of at least 12 months if use is episodic or at 
least one month if use is conti nuous (i.e., daily or almost daily). Harm to health of 
the individual occurs due to one or more of the following: (1) behaviour related to 
intoxication; (2) direct or secondary toxic effects on body organs and systems; or (3) 
a harmful route of administrat ion. Harm to health of others includes any form of 
physical harm, including trauma, or mental disorder that is directly attributable to 
behaviour related to intoxication due to the specified substance or medication on 
the part of the person to whom the dia gnosis of Harmful pattern of use of other 
specified psychoactive substance applies.  
Exclusions:  Other specified psychoactive substance dependence (6C4E.2)  
Episode of harmful use of other specified psychoactive 
substance (6C4E.0)  
 
6C4E.10  Harmful pattern of  use of other specified psychoactive substance, episodic  
A pattern of episodic or intermittent use of a specified psychoactive substance or 
medication that is not included in the other substance classes specifically identified 
under Disorders Due to Substa nce Abuse that has caused damage to a person’s 
physical or mental health or has resulted in behaviour leading to harm to the health 
of others. The pattern of episodic substance use is evident over a period of at least 
12 months. Harm to health of the indiv idual occurs due to one or more of the 
following: (1) behaviour related to intoxication; (2) direct or secondary toxic effects 
on body organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of administration. Harm to 
health of others includes any form of physical harm , including trauma, or mental 
disorder that is directly attributable to behaviour related to intoxication due to the 
specified substance or medication on the part of the person to whom the diagnosis 
of Harmful pattern of use of other specified psychoactive  substance applies.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of other specified psychoactive 
substance (6C4E.0)  
Other specified psychoactive substance dependence (6C4E.2)  
 ICD-11 MMS  533 
 6C4E.11  Harmful pattern of use of other specified psychoactive substance, continuous  
A pat tern of continuous (daily or almost daily) use of a specified psychoactive 
substance or medication that is not included in the other substance classes 
specifically identified under Disorders Due to Substance Use that has caused 
damage to a person’s physica l or mental health or has resulted in behaviour leading 
to harm to the health of others. The pattern of continuous substance use is evident 
over a period of at least one month. Harm to health of the individual occurs due to 
one or more of the following: (1 ) behaviour related to intoxication; (2) direct or 
secondary toxic effects on body organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of 
administration. Harm to health of others includes any form of physical harm, 
including trauma, or mental disorder that is direc tly attributable to behaviour related 
to intoxication due to the specified substance or medication on the part of the 
person to whom the diagnosis of Harmful pattern of use of other specified 
psychoactive substance applies.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful u se of other specified psychoactive 
substance (6C4E.0)  
Other specified psychoactive substance dependence (6C4E.2)  
 
6C4E.1Z  Harmful pattern of use of other specified psychoactive substance, unspecified  
 
6C4E.2  Other specified psychoactive substance dependenc e 
Other specified psychoactive substance dependence is a disorder of regulation of 
use of a specified substance arising from repeated or continuous use of the 
specified substance. The characteristic feature is a strong internal drive to use the 
specified s ubstance, which is manifested by impaired ability to control use, 
increasing priority given to use over other activities and persistence of use despite 
harm or negative consequences. These experiences are often accompanied by a 
subjective sensation of urge  or craving to use the specified substance. Physiological 
features of dependence may also be present, including tolerance to the effects of 
the specified substance, withdrawal symptoms following cessation or reduction in 
use of the specified substance, or repeated use of the specified substance or 
pharmacologically similar substances to prevent or alleviate withdrawal symptoms. 
The features of dependence are usually evident over a period of at least 12 months 
but the diagnosis may be made if use of the spec ified substance is continuous (daily 
or almost daily) for at least 3 months.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of other specified psychoactive 
substance (6C4E.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of other specified psychoactive 
substance (6C4E.1)  
 
6C4E.20  Other spec ified psychoactive substance dependence, current use  
Current Other specified psychoactive substance dependence, with use of the 
specified psychoactive substance within the past month.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of other specified psychoactive 
subst ance (6C4E.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of other specified psychoactive 
substance (6C4E.1)  
 534  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C4E.21  Other specified psychoactive substance dependence, early full remission  
After a diagnosis of Other specified psychoactive substance dependence, and often 
following a treatment episode or other intervention (including self -help intervention), 
the individual has been abstinent from the specified substance during a period 
lasting  between 1 and 12 months.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of other specified psychoactive 
substance (6C4E.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of other specified psychoactive 
substance (6C4E.1)  
 
6C4E.22  Other specified psychoactive substance dependence, sustained partial remission  
After a diagnosis of Other specified psychoactive substance dependence, and often 
following a treatment episode or other intervention (including self -help intervention), 
there is a significant reduction in consumption of the specified substance for more 
than 12 months, such that even though intermittent or continuing substance use has 
occurred duri ng this period, the definitional requirements for dependence have not 
been met.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of other specified psychoactive 
substance (6C4E.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of other specified psychoactive 
substance (6C4E.1)  
 
6C4E.23  Other s pecified psychoactive substance dependence, sustained full remission  
After a diagnosis of Other specified psychoactive substance dependence, and often 
following a treatment episode or other intervention (including self -intervention), the 
person has been ab stinent from the specified substance for 12 months or longer.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of other specified psychoactive 
substance (6C4E.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of other specified psychoactive 
substance (6C4E.1)  
 
6C4E.2Z  Other specified psychoact ive substance dependence, unspecified  
 
6C4E.3  Other specified psychoactive substance intoxication  
Other specified psychoactive substance intoxication is a clinically significant 
transient condition that develops during or shortly after the consumption of a  
specified psychoactive substance or medication that is characterised by 
disturbances in level of consciousness, cognition, perception, affect, behaviour, or 
coordination. These disturbances are caused by the known pharmacological effects 
of the specified psychoactive substance and their intensity is closely related to the 
amount of the specified psychoactive substance consumed. They are time -limited 
and abate as the specified substance is cleared from the body.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 ICD-11 MMS  535 
 6C4E.4  Other specified psychoactive substance withdrawal  
Other specified psychoactive substance withdrawal is a clinically significant cluster 
of symptoms, behaviours and/or physiological features, varying in degree of severity 
and duration, that occurs u pon cessation or reduction of use of the specified 
substance in individuals who have developed dependence or have used the 
specified substance for a prolonged period or in large amounts. Other specified 
psychoactive substance withdrawal can also occur when  prescribed psychoactive 
medications have been used in standard therapeutic doses. The specific features of 
the withdrawal state depend on the pharmacological properties of the specified 
substance.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4E.40  Othe r specified psychoactive substance withdrawal, uncomplicated  
The development of a withdrawal state not accompanied by perceptual 
disturbances or seizures following cessation or reduction of use of the specified 
substance.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4E.41  Other specified psychoactive substance withdrawal, with perceptual disturbances  
The development of a withdrawal state accompanied by perceptual disturbances 
but not by seizures following cessation or reduction of us e of the specified 
substance.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4E.42  Other specified psychoactive substance withdrawal, with seizures  
The development of a withdrawal state accompanied by seizures but not by 
perceptual disturbances following cessation or reduction of use of the specified 
substance.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4E.43  Other specified psychoactive substance withdrawal, with perceptual disturbances 
and seizures  
The development of a withdrawal state accompanied b y both perceptual 
disturbances and seizures following cessation or reduction of use of the specified 
substance.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4E.4Z  Other specified psychoactive substance withdrawal, unspecified  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 536  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C4E.5  Delirium induced by other specified psychoactive substance including 
medications  
Delirium induced by other specified psychoactive substance is characterised by an 
acute state of disturbed attention and awareness with specific features of delirium 
that develops during or soon after substance intoxication or withdrawal or during the 
use of a specified psychoactive substance. The amount and duration of use of the 
specified substance must be capable of producing delirium. The symptoms are not 
better explained by a primary mental disorder, by use of or withdrawal from a 
different substance, or by another health condition that is not classified under 
Mental, behavioural and neurodevelopmental disorders.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4E.6  Psychotic disorder induced by other specified psychoactive substance  
Psychotic disorder i nduced by other specified psychoactive substance is 
characterised by psychotic symptoms (e.g., delusions, hallucinations, disorganised 
thinking, grossly disorganised behaviour) that develop during or soon after 
intoxication with or withdrawal from a specif ied psychoactive substance. The 
intensity or duration of the symptoms is substantially in excess of psychotic -like 
disturbances of perception, cognition, or behaviour that are characteristic of 
intoxication with or withdrawal from a specified psychoactive substance. The 
amount and duration of use of the specified psychoactive substance must be 
capable of producing psychotic symptoms. The symptoms are not better explained 
by a primary mental disorder (e.g., Schizophrenia, a Mood disorder with psychotic 
sympt oms), as might be the case if the psychotic symptoms preceded the onset of 
the use of the specified psychoactive substance, if the symptoms persist for a 
substantial period of time after cessation of the use of the specified psychoactive 
substance or withd rawal from the specified psychoactive substance, or if there is 
other evidence of a pre -existing primary mental disorder with psychotic symptoms 
(e.g., a history of prior episodes not associated with the use of the specified 
psychoactive substance).  
Coding  Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4E.7  Certain other specified psychoactive substance -induced mental or 
behavioural disorders  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 ICD-11 MMS  537 
 6C4E.70  Mood disorder induced by other specified psychoactive substance  
Mood disorder induced by other specified psychoactive substance is characterised 
by mood symptoms (e.g., depressed or elevated mood, decreased engagement in 
pleasurable activities, increased o r decreased energy levels) that develop during or 
soon after intoxication with or withdrawal from a specified psychoactive substance. 
The intensity or duration of the symptoms is substantially in excess of mood 
disturbances that are characteristic of intox ication with or withdrawal from a 
specified psychoactive substance. The amount and duration of use of the specified 
psychoactive substance must be capable of producing mood symptoms. The 
symptoms are not better explained by a primary mental disorder (e.g.,  a Depressive 
disorder, a Bipolar disorder, Schizoaffective disorder), as might be the case if the 
mood symptoms preceded the onset of the use of the specified psychoactive 
substance, if the symptoms persist for a substantial period of time after cessation  of 
the use of the specified psychoactive substance or withdrawal from the specified 
psychoactive substance, or if there is other evidence of a pre -existing primary 
mental disorder with mood symptoms (e.g., a history of prior episodes not 
associated with t he use of the specified psychoactive substance).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4E.71  Anxiety disorder induced by other specified psychoactive substance  
Anxiety disorder induced by other specified psychoactive substance is 
characterised by  anxiety symptoms (e.g., apprehension or worry, fear, physiological 
symptoms of excessive autonomic arousal, avoidance behaviour) that develop 
during or soon after intoxication with or withdrawal from a specified psychoactive 
substance. The intensity or du ration of the symptoms is substantially in excess of 
anxiety symptoms that are characteristic of intoxication with or withdrawal from a 
specified psychoactive substance. The amount and duration of use of the specified 
psychoactive substance must be capable  of producing anxiety symptoms. The 
symptoms are not better explained by a primary mental disorder (e.g., an Anxiety 
and fear -related disorder, a Depressive disorder with prominent anxiety symptoms), 
as might be the case if the anxiety symptoms preceded th e onset of the use of the 
specified psychoactive substance, if the symptoms persist for a substantial period of 
time after cessation of the use of the specified psychoactive substance or 
withdrawal from the specified psychoactive substance, or if there is other evidence 
of a pre -existing primary mental disorder with anxiety symptoms (e.g., a history of 
prior episodes not associated with the use of the specified psychoactive substance).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 538  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C4E.72  Obsessive -compulsi ve or related disorder induced by other specified psychoactive 
substance  
Obsessive -compulsive or related disorder induced by other specified psychoactive 
substance is characterised by either repetitive intrusive thoughts or preoccupations, 
normally associa ted with anxiety and typically accompanied by repetitive behaviours 
performed in response, or by recurrent and habitual actions directed at the 
integument (e.g., hair pulling, skin picking) that develop during or soon after 
intoxication with or withdrawal from a specified psychoactive substance. The 
intensity or duration of the symptoms is substantially in excess of analogous 
disturbances that are characteristic of intoxication with or withdrawal from the 
specified psychoactive substance. The amount and dur ation of the specified 
psychoactive substance use must be capable of producing obsessive -compulsive or 
related symptoms. The symptoms are not better explained by a primary mental 
disorder (in particular an Obsessive -compulsive or related disorder), as migh t be the 
case if the symptoms preceded the onset of the specified psychoactive substance 
use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial period of time after cessation of use or 
withdrawal of the specified psychoactive substance, or if there is other eviden ce of a 
pre-existing primary mental disorder with obsessive -compulsive or related 
symptoms (e.g., a history of prior episodes not associated with specified 
psychoactive substance use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4E.73  Impulse control d isorder induced by other specified psychoactive substance  
Impulse control disorder induced by other specified psychoactive substance is 
characterised by persistently repeated behaviours in which there is recurrent failure 
to resist an impulse, drive, or ur ge to perform an act that is rewarding to the person, 
at least in the short -term, despite longer -term harm either to the individual or to 
others (e.g., fire setting or stealing without apparent motive, repetitive sexual 
behaviour, aggressive outbursts) tha t develop during or soon after intoxication with 
or withdrawal from a specified psychoactive substance. The intensity or duration of 
the symptoms is substantially in excess of disturbances of impulse control that are 
characteristic of intoxication with or withdrawal from the specified psychoactive 
substance. The amount and duration of the specified psychoactive substance use 
must be capable of producing disturbances of impulse control. The symptoms are 
not better explained by a primary mental disorder (e.g. , an Impulse control disorder, 
a Disorder due to addictive behaviours), as might be the case if the impulse control 
disturbances preceded the onset of the specified psychoactive substance use, if the 
symptoms persist for a substantial period of time after cessation of use or 
withdrawal of the specified psychoactive substance, or if there is other evidence of a 
pre-existing primary mental disorder with impulse control symptoms (e.g., a history 
of prior episodes not associated with specified psychoactive subs tance use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4E.Y  Other specified disorders due to use of other specified psychoactive 
substances, including medications  
 
6C4E.Z  Disorders due to use of other specified psychoactive substances, including 
medic ations, unspecified  
 ICD-11 MMS  539 
   6C4F   Disorders due to use of multiple specified psychoactive substances, 
including medications  
Disorders due to use of multiple specified psychoactive substances, including 
medications are characterised by the pattern and consequen ces of multiple 
psychoactive substances. Although this grouping is provided for coding purposes, in 
most clinical situations it is recommended that multiple specific disorders due to 
substance use be assigned rather than using categories from this grouping . 
 
6C4F.0  Episode of harmful use of multiple specified psychoactive substances  
An episode of use of multiple specified psychoactive substances or medications that 
are not included in the other substance classes specifically identified under Disorder 
Due to  Substance Use that has caused damage to a person’s physical or mental 
health or has resulted in behaviour leading to harm to the health of others. Harm to 
health of the individual occurs due to one or more of the following: (1) behaviour 
related to multip le substance intoxication or psychoactive medication use; (2) direct 
or secondary toxic effects on body organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of 
administration. Harm to health of others includes any form of physical harm, 
including trauma, or mental d isorder that is directly attributable to behaviour due to 
multiple substance intoxication or psychoactive medication use on the part of the 
person to whom the diagnosis of single episode of harmful use of multiple specified 
psychoactive substances applies.  This diagnosis should not be made if the harm is 
attributed to a known pattern of use of the multiple psychoactive substances.  
Exclusions:  Harmful pattern of use of multiple specified psychoactive 
substances (6C4F.1)  
Multiple specified psychoactive substa nces dependence 
(6C4F.2)  
 
6C4F.1  Harmful pattern of use of multiple specified psychoactive substances  
A pattern of use of multiple specified psychoactive substances or medications that 
are not included in the other substance classes specifically identified under 
Disorders Due to Substance Use that has caused damage to a person’s physical or 
mental health o r has resulted in behaviour leading to harm to the health of others. 
The pattern of substance use is evident over a period of at least 12 months if use is 
episodic or at least one month if use is continuous (i.e., daily or almost daily). Harm 
to health of the individual occurs due to one or more of the following: (1) behaviour 
related to multiple substance intoxication or psychoactive medication use; (2) direct 
or secondary toxic effects on body organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of 
administration. Harm to health of others includes any form of physical harm, 
including trauma, or mental disorder that is directly attributable to behaviour related 
to multiple substance intoxication or psychoactive medication use on the part of the 
person to whom the dia gnosis of Harmful pattern of use of multiple specified 
psychoactive substances applies.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of multiple specified psychoactive 
substances (6C4F.0)  
Multiple specified psychoactive substances dependence 
(6C4F.2)  
 540  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C4F.10  Harmfu l pattern of use of multiple specified psychoactive substances, episodic  
A pattern of episodic or intermittent use of a specified psychoactive substance or 
medication that is not included in the other substance classes specifically identified 
under Disorde rs Due to Substance Use that has caused damage to a person’s 
physical or mental health or has resulted in behaviour leading to harm to the health 
of others. The pattern of episodic substance use is evident over a period of at least 
12 months. Harm to healt h of the individual occurs due to one or more of the 
following: (1) behaviour related to intoxication; (2) direct or secondary toxic effects 
on body organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of administration. Harm to 
health of others includes any form of  physical harm, including trauma, or mental 
disorder that is directly attributable to behaviour related to intoxication due to the 
specified substance or medication on the part of the person to whom the diagnosis 
of Harmful pattern of use of other specifie d psychoactive substance applies.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of multiple specified psychoactive 
substances (6C4F.0)  
Multiple specified psychoactive substances dependence 
(6C4F.2)  
 
6C4F.11  Harmful pattern of use of multiple specified psychoactive su bstances, continuous  
A pattern of continuous (daily or almost daily) use of multiple specified psychoactive 
substances or medications that are not included in the other substance classes 
specifically identified under Disorders Due to Substance Use that has  caused 
damage to a person’s physical or mental health or has resulted in behaviour leading 
to harm to the health of others. The pattern of continuous substance use is evident 
over a period of at least one month. Harm to health of the individual occurs due  to 
one or more of the following: (1) behaviour related to multiple substance intoxication 
or psychoactive medication use; (2) direct or secondary toxic effects on body 
organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of administration. Harm to health of 
others includes any form of physical harm, including trauma, or mental disorder that 
is directly attributable to behaviour related to multiple substance intoxication or 
psychoactive medication use on the part of the person to whom the diagnosis of 
Harmful pattern  of multiple specified psychoactive substances applies.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of multiple specified psychoactive 
substances (6C4F.0)  
Multiple specified psychoactive substances dependence 
(6C4F.2)  
 
6C4F.1Z  Harmful pattern of use of multiple spe cified psychoactive substances, unspecified  
 ICD-11 MMS  541 
 6C4F.2  Multiple specified psychoactive substances dependence  
Multiple specified psychoactive substance dependence is a disorder of regulation of 
use of multiple specified substances arising from repeated or cont inuous use of the 
specified substances. The characteristic feature is a strong internal drive to use the 
specified substances, which is manifested by impaired ability to control use, 
increasing priority given to use over other activities and persistence of  use despite 
harm or negative consequences. These experiences are often accompanied by a 
subjective sensation of urge or craving to use the specified substances. 
Physiological features of dependence may also be present, including tolerance to 
the effects o f the specified substances, withdrawal symptoms following cessation or 
reduction in use of the specified substances, or repeated use of the specified 
substances or pharmacologically similar substances to prevent or alleviate 
withdrawal symptoms. The featur es of dependence are usually evident over a 
period of at least 12 months but the diagnosis may be made if use of the specified 
substances is continuous (daily or almost daily) for at least 3 months.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of multiple specified psychoactive 
substances (6C4F.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of multiple specified psychoactive 
substances (6C4F.1)  
 
6C4F.20  Multiple specified psychoactive substances dependence, current use  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of multiple specified psychoactive  
substances (6C4F.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of multiple specified psychoactive 
substances (6C4F.1)  
 
6C4F.21  Multiple specified psychoactive substances dependence, early full remission  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of multiple specified psychoactive 
substances (6C4F.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of multiple specified psychoactive 
substances (6C4F.1)  
 
6C4F.22  Multiple specified psychoactive substances dependence, sustained partial 
remission  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of multiple specified psychoactive 
substances (6C4F.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of multiple specified psychoactive 
substances (6C4F.1)  
 
6C4F .23 Multiple specified psychoactive substances dependence, sustained full remission  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of multiple specified psychoactive 
substances (6C4F.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of multiple specified psychoactive 
substances (6C4F.1)  
 
6C4F.2Z  Multiple specified psychoactive substances dependence, unspecified  
 542  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C4F.3  Intoxication due to multiple specified psychoactive substances  
Intoxication due to multiple specified psychoactive substances is a clinically 
significant transient condition that develops during or shortly after the consumption 
of multiple specified substances or medications that is characterised by 
disturbances in co nsciousness, cognition, perception, affect, behaviour, or 
coordination. These disturbances are caused by the known pharmacological effects 
of the multiple specified psychoactive substances and their intensity is closely 
related to the amount of the substan ces consumed. They are time -limited and abate 
as the multiple specified substances are cleared from the body.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4F.4  Multiple specified psychoactive substances withdrawal  
Multiple specified psychoactive substan ce withdrawal is a clinically significant 
cluster of symptoms, behaviours and physiological features, varying in degree of 
severity and duration, that occurs upon cessation or reduction of use of multiple 
specified substances in individuals who have develo ped dependence or have used 
the specified substances for a prolonged period or in large amounts. Multiple 
specified psychoactive substance withdrawal can also occur when prescribed 
psychoactive medications have been used in standard therapeutic doses. The 
specific features of the withdrawal state depend on the pharmacological properties 
of the specified substances and their interactions.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4F.40  Multiple specified psychoactive substances withdrawal, uncomplicate d 
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4F.41  Multiple specified psychoactive substances withdrawal, with perceptual 
disturbances  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4F.42  Multiple specified psychoactive substances withdrawal, with se izures  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4F.43  Multiple specified psychoactive substances withdrawal, with perceptual 
disturbances and seizures  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4F.4Y  Other specified multiple specified psychoactive substances withdrawal  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4F.4Z  Multiple specified psychoactive substances withdrawal, unspecified  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 ICD-11 MMS  543 
 6C4F.5  Delirium ind uced by multiple specified psychoactive substances including 
medications  
Delirium induced by multiple specified psychoactive substances is characterised by 
an acute state of disturbed attention and awareness with specific features of 
delirium that develops  during or soon after substance intoxication or withdrawal or 
during the use of multiple specified substances. The amount and duration of use of 
the multiple specified substances must be capable of producing delirium. The 
symptoms are not better explained by a primary mental disorder, by use of or 
withdrawal from a substance other than those specified, or by another health 
condition that is not classified under Mental, behavioural and neurodevelopmental 
disorders. Note that this diagnosis applies only to th ose situations in which delirium 
is present but it cannot be determined which of multiple psychoactive substances is 
the cause of the delirium. In cases of multiple psychoactive substance use in which 
more than one specific substance can be identified as a  cause of the delirium, the 
corresponding specific substance -induced delirium diagnoses should be given 
instead.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4F.6  Psychotic disorder induced by multiple specified psychoactive substances  
Psychotic disorde r induced by multiple specified psychoactive substances is 
characterised by psychotic symptoms (e.g., delusions, hallucinations, disorganised 
thinking, grossly disorganised behaviour) that develop during or soon after 
intoxication with or withdrawal from m ultiple specified psychoactive substances. The 
intensity or duration of the symptoms is substantially in excess of psychotic -like 
disturbances of perception, cognition, or behaviour that are characteristic of 
intoxication with or withdrawal from multiple s pecified psychoactive substances. The 
amount and duration of use of the multiple specified psychoactive substances must 
be capable of producing psychotic symptoms. The symptoms are not better 
explained by a primary mental disorder (e.g., Schizophrenia, a M ood disorder with 
psychotic symptoms), as might be the case if the psychotic symptoms preceded the 
onset of the use of the multiple specified psychoactive substances, if the symptoms 
persist for a substantial period of time after cessation of the use of th e multiple 
specified psychoactive substances or withdrawal from the multiple specified 
psychoactive substances, or if there is other evidence of a pre -existing primary 
mental disorder with psychotic symptoms (e.g., a history of prior episodes not 
associate d with the use of the multiple specified psychoactive substances).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4F.7  Certain multiple specified psychoactive substances -induced mental or 
behavioural disorders  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 544  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C4F.70  Mood disorder induced by multiple specified psychoactive substances  
Mood disorder induced by multiple specified psychoactive substances is 
characterised by mood symptoms (e.g., depressed or elevated mood, decreased 
engagement in pleasurable activi ties, increased or decreased energy levels) that 
develop during or soon after intoxication with or withdrawal from multiple specified 
psychoactive substances. The intensity or duration of the symptoms is substantially 
in excess of mood disturbances that ar e characteristic of intoxication with or 
withdrawal from multiple specified psychoactive substances. The amount and 
duration of use of the multiple specified psychoactive substances must be capable 
of producing mood symptoms. The symptoms are not better ex plained by a primary 
mental disorder (e.g., a Depressive disorder, a Bipolar disorder, Schizoaffective 
disorder), as might be the case if the mood symptoms preceded the onset of the 
use of the multiple specified psychoactive substances, if the symptoms per sist for a 
substantial period of time after cessation of the use of the multiple specified 
psychoactive substances or withdrawal from the multiple specified psychoactive 
substances, or if there is other evidence of a pre -existing primary mental disorder 
with mood symptoms (e.g., a history of prior episodes not associated with the use of 
the multiple specified psychoactive substances).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4F.71  Anxiety disorder induced by multiple specified psychoactive substances  
Anxiety disorder induced by multiple specified psychoactive substances is 
characterised by anxiety symptoms (e.g., apprehension or worry, fear, physiological 
symptoms of excessive auton omic arousal, avoidance behaviour) that develop 
during or soon after intoxication with or withdrawal from multiple specified 
psychoactive substances. The intensity or duration of the symptoms is substantially 
in excess of anxiety symptoms that are characte ristic of intoxication with or 
withdrawal from multiple specified psychoactive substances. The amount and 
duration of use of the multiple specified psychoactive substances must be capable 
of producing anxiety symptoms. The symptoms are not better explained  by a 
primary mental disorder (e.g., an Anxiety and fear -related disorder, a Depressive 
disorder with prominent anxiety symptoms), as might be the case if the anxiety 
symptoms preceded the onset of the use of the multiple specified psychoactive 
substances,  if the symptoms persist for a substantial period of time after cessation 
of the use of the multiple specified psychoactive substances or withdrawal from the 
multiple specified psychoactive substances, or if there is other evidence of a pre -
existing primar y mental disorder with anxiety symptoms (e.g., a history of prior 
episodes not associated with the use of the multiple specified psychoactive 
substances).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 ICD-11 MMS  545 
 6C4F.72  Obsessive -compulsive or related disorder induced by multiple specified 
psychoactive substances  
Obsessive -compulsive or related disorder induced by multiple specified 
psychoactive substances is characterised by either repetitive intrusive thoughts or 
preocc upations, normally associated with anxiety and typically accompanied by 
repetitive behaviours performed in response, or by recurrent and habitual actions 
directed at the integument (e.g., hair pulling, skin picking) that develop during or 
soon after intoxi cation with or withdrawal from multiple specified psychoactive 
substances. The intensity or duration of the symptoms is substantially in excess of 
analogous disturbances that are characteristic of intoxication with or withdrawal 
from the multiple specified  psychoactive substances. The amount and duration of 
the multiple specified psychoactive substances use must be capable of producing 
obsessive -compulsive or related symptoms. The symptoms are not better explained 
by a primary mental disorder (in particular  an Obsessive -compulsive or related 
disorder), as might be the case if the symptoms preceded the onset of the use of 
multiple specified psychoactive substances, if the symptoms persist for a substantial 
period of time after cessation of the multiple specif ied psychoactive substance use 
or withdrawal, or if there is other evidence of a pre -existing primary mental disorder 
with obsessive -compulsive or related symptoms (e.g., a history of prior episodes not 
associated with multiple specified psychoactive subst ances use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4F.73  Impulse control syndrome induced by multiple specified psychoactive substances  
Impulse control disorder induced by multiple specified psychoactive substances is 
characterised by persistently  repeated behaviours in which there is recurrent failure 
to resist an impulse, drive, or urge to perform an act that is rewarding to the person, 
at least in the short -term, despite longer -term harm either to the individual or to 
others (e.g., fire setting or stealing without apparent motive, repetitive sexual 
behaviour, aggressive outbursts) that develop during or soon after intoxication with 
or withdrawal from multiple specified psychoactive substances. The intensity or 
duration of the symptoms is substant ially in excess of disturbances of impulse 
control that are characteristic of intoxication with or withdrawal from the multiple 
specified psychoactive substances. The amount and duration of the multiple 
specified psychoactive substances use must be capable  of producing disturbances 
of impulse control. The symptoms are not better explained by a primary mental 
disorder (e.g., an Impulse control disorder, a Disorder due to addictive behaviours), 
as might be the case if the impulse control disturbances preceded  the onset of the 
use of multiple specified psychoactive substances, if the symptoms persist for a 
substantial period of time after cessation of the multiple specified psychoactive 
substance use or withdrawal, or if there is other evidence of a pre -existin g primary 
mental disorder with impulse control symptoms (e.g., a history of prior episodes not 
associated with multiple specified psychoactive substances use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4F.Y  Other specified disorders due to use of mul tiple specified psychoactive 
substances, including medications  
 
6C4F.Z  Disorders due to use of multiple specified psychoactive substances, 
including medications, unspecified  
 546  ICD-11 MMS  
   6C4G   Disorders due to use of unknown or unspecified psychoactive 
substances  
Disorders due to use of unknown or unspecified psychoactive substances are 
characterised by the pattern and consequences of psychoactive substance use 
when the specific substance is unknown or unspecified. These categories may be 
used in clinical situations  in which it is clear that the disturbance is due to substance 
use but the specific class of substance is unknown. Once the relevant substance is 
identified, the disturbance should be recoded under the appropriate substance 
class.  
 
6C4G.0  Episode of harmfu l use of unknown or unspecified psychoactive substances  
An episode of use of an unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance that has 
caused damage to a person’s physical or mental health or has resulted in behaviour 
leading to harm to the health of other s. Harm to health of the individual occurs due 
to one or more of the following: (1) behaviour related to intoxication or withdrawal; 
(2) direct or secondary toxic effects on body organs and systems; or (3) a harmful 
route of administration. Harm to health of others includes any form of physical harm, 
including trauma, or mental disorder that is directly attributable to behaviour due to 
substance intoxication or withdrawal on the part of the person to whom the 
diagnosis of single episode of harmful use appli es. This diagnosis should not be 
made if the harm is attributed to a known pattern of use of the unknown or 
unspecified psychoactive substance.  
Exclusions:  Harmful pattern of use of unknown or unspecified psychoactive 
substance (6C4G.1)  
Unknown or unspecif ied psychoactive substance dependence 
(6C4G.2)  
 
6C4G.1  Harmful pattern of use of unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance  
A pattern of use of an unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance that has 
caused damage to a person’s physical or mental heal th or has resulted in behaviour 
leading to harm to the health of others. The pattern of substance use is evident over 
a period of at least 12 months if use is episodic or at least one month if use is 
continuous (i.e., daily or almost daily). Harm to health  of the individual occurs due to 
one or more of the following: (1) behaviour related to intoxication; (2) direct or 
secondary toxic effects on body organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of 
administration. Harm to health of others includes any form of physical harm, 
including trauma, or mental disorder that is directly attributable to behaviour related 
to substance intoxication on the part of the person to whom the diagnosis of 
Harmful pattern of use of unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance appl ies. 
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of unknown or unspecified 
psychoactive substances (6C4G.0)  
Unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance dependence 
(6C4G.2)  
 ICD-11 MMS  547 
 6C4G.10  Harmful pattern of use of unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance, episodic  
A pattern of episodic or intermittent use of an unknown or unspecified psychoactive 
substance that has caused damage to a person’s physical or mental health or has 
resulted in behaviour leading to harm to the health of others. The pattern of episodic 
subst ance use is evident over a period of at least 12 months. Harm to health of the 
individual occurs due to one or more of the following: (1) behaviour related to 
intoxication; (2) direct or secondary toxic effects on body organs and systems; or (3) 
a harmful route of administration. Harm to health of others includes any form of 
physical harm, including trauma, or mental disorder that is directly attributable to 
behaviour related to substance intoxication on the part of the person to whom the 
diagnosis of Harmf ul pattern of use of unknown or unspecified psychoactive 
substance applies.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of unknown or unspecified 
psychoactive substances (6C4G.0)  
Unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance dependence 
(6C4G.2)  
 
6C4G.11  Harmful pattern of use of unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance, 
continuous  
A pattern of continuous (daily or almost daily) use of an unknown or unspecified 
psychoactive sub stance that has caused damage to a person’s physical or mental 
health or has resulted in behaviour leading to harm to the health of others. The 
pattern of continuous substance use is evident over a period of at least one month. 
Harm to health of the indivi dual occurs due to one or more of the following: (1) 
behaviour related to intoxication; (2) direct or secondary toxic effects on body 
organs and systems; or (3) a harmful route of administration. Harm to health of 
others includes any form of physical harm,  including trauma, or mental disorder that 
is directly attributable to behaviour related to substance intoxication on the part of 
the person to whom the diagnosis of Harmful pattern of use of unknown or 
unspecified psychoactive substance applies.  
Exclusion s: Episode of harmful use of unknown or unspecified 
psychoactive substances (6C4G.0)  
Unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance dependence 
(6C4G.2)  
 
6C4G.1Z  Harmful pattern of use of unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance, 
unspecified  
 548  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C4G.2  Unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance dependence  
Unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance dependence is a disorder of 
regulation of use of an unknown or unspecified substance arising from repeated or 
continuous use of the substance. The characteristic feature is a strong internal drive 
to use the unknown or unspecified substance, which is manifested by impaired 
ability to control use, increasing priorit y given to use over other activities and 
persistence of use despite harm or negative consequences. These experiences are 
often accompanied by a subjective sensation of urge or craving to use the unknown 
or unspecified substance. The features of dependence are usually evident over a 
period of at least 12 months but the diagnosis may be made if use of the unknown 
or unspecified substance is continuous (daily or almost daily) for at least 3 months.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of unknown or unspecified 
psychoactive substances (6C4G.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of unknown or unspecified psychoactive 
substance (6C4G.1)  
 
6C4G.20  Unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance dependence, current use  
Current dependence on an unknown or unspecified psychoactive sub stance, with 
use of the substance within the past month.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of unknown or unspecified 
psychoactive substances (6C4G.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of unknown or unspecified psychoactive 
substance (6C4G.1)  
 
6C4G.21  Unknown or unsp ecified psychoactive substance dependence, early full remission  
After a diagnosis of Unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance dependence, 
and often following a treatment episode or other intervention (including self -help 
intervention), the individual has been abstinent from the substance during a period 
lasting between 1 and 12 months.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of unknown or unspecified 
psychoactive substances (6C4G.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of unknown or unspecified psychoactive 
substance (6C 4G.1)  
 
6C4G.22  Unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance dependence, sustained partial 
remission  
After a diagnosis of Unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance dependence, 
and often following a treatment episode or other intervention (including sel f-help 
intervention), there is a significant reduction in consumption of the substance for 
more than 12 months, such that even though intermittent or continuing use of the 
substance has occurred during this period, the definitional requirements for 
depende nce have not been met.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of unknown or unspecified 
psychoactive substances (6C4G.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of unknown or unspecified psychoactive 
substance (6C4G.1)  
 ICD-11 MMS  549 
 6C4G.23  Unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance dependence, sustained full 
remission  
After a diagnosis of Unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance dependence, 
sustained full remission, and often following a treatment episode or other 
intervention (including self -intervention), the person has been abstinent from the 
substance for 12 months or longer.  
Exclusions:  Episode of harmful use of unknown or unspecified 
psycho active substances (6C4G.0)  
Harmful pattern of use of unknown or unspecified psychoactive 
substance (6C4G.1)  
 
6C4G.2Z  Unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance dependence, substance and state 
of remission unspecified  
 
6C4G.3  Intoxication due to unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance  
Intoxication due to unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance is a transient 
condition that develops during or shortly after the administration of an unknown or 
unspecified psychoactive substance that is characteri sed by disturbances in level of 
consciousness, cognition, perception, affect or behaviour, or other 
psychophysiological functions and responses. This diagnosis should be made only 
when there is strong evidence that an unidentified substance has been taken and 
the features cannot be accounted for by another disorder or disease.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4G.4  Withdrawal due to unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance  
Withdrawal due to unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance is  a clinically 
significant cluster of symptoms, behaviours and/or physiological features, varying in 
degree of severity and duration, that occurs upon cessation or reduction of use of 
an unknown or unspecified substance in individuals who have developed 
dependence or have used the unknown or unspecified substance for a prolonged 
period or in large amounts. Withdrawal due to unknown or unspecified psychoactive 
substance can also occur when prescribed psychoactive medications have been 
used in standard therape utic doses. The specific features of the withdrawal state 
depend on the pharmacological properties of the unknown or unspecified 
substance.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4G.40  Withdrawal due to unknown or unspecified psychoactive substanc e, uncomplicated  
All diagnostic requirements for Withdrawal due to unknown or unspecified 
psychoactive substance are met and the withdrawal state is not accompanied by 
perceptual disturbances or seizures.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 550  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C4G.41  Withdrawal due to unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance, with perceptual 
disturbances  
All diagnostic requirements for Withdrawal due to unknown or unspecified 
psychoactive substance are met and the withdrawa l state is accompanied by 
perceptual disturbances (e.g., visual or tactile hallucinations or illusions) with intact 
reality testing. There is no evidence of confusion and other diagnostic requirements 
for Delirium are not met. The withdrawal state is not a ccompanied by seizures.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4G.42  Withdrawal due to unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance, with seizures  
All diagnostic requirements for Withdrawal due to unknown or unspecified 
psychoactive substance are  met and the withdrawal state is accompanied by 
seizures (i.e., generalised tonic -clonic seizures) but not by perceptual disturbances.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4G.43  Withdrawal due to unknown or unspecified psychoactive, with perceptual 
disturbances and seizures  
The development of a withdrawal syndrome accompanied by both perceptual 
disturbances and seizures following cessation or reduction of use of the unknown or 
unspecified substance.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4G.4Z  Withdrawal due to unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance, unspecified  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4G.5  Delirium induced by unknown or unspecified psychoact ive substance  
Delirium induced by unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance is 
characterised by an acute state of disturbed attention and awareness with specific 
features of delirium that develops during or soon after substance intoxication or 
withdraw al or during the use of an unknown or unspecified substance. The 
symptoms are not better explained by a primary mental disorder, by use of or 
withdrawal from another substance, or by another health condition that is not 
classified under Mental, behavioural  and neurodevelopmental disorders.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 ICD-11 MMS  551 
 6C4G.6  Psychotic disorder induced by unknown or unspecified psychoactive 
substance  
Psychotic disorder induced by unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance is 
characterised  by psychotic symptoms (e.g., delusions, hallucinations, disorganised 
thinking, grossly disorganised behaviour) that develop during or soon after 
intoxication with or withdrawal from an unknown or unspecified psychoactive 
substance. The symptoms are not be tter explained by a primary mental disorder 
(e.g., Schizophrenia, a Mood disorder with psychotic symptoms), as might be the 
case if the psychotic symptoms preceded the onset of the use of the unknown or 
unspecified psychoactive substance, if the symptoms p ersist for a substantial period 
of time after cessation of the use of the unknown or unspecified psychoactive 
substance or withdrawal from the unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance, 
or if there is other evidence of a pre -existing primary mental dis order with psychotic 
symptoms (e.g., a history of prior episodes not associated with the use of the 
unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4G.7  Certain unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance -induced mental or 
behavioural disorders  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4G.70  Mood disorder induced by unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance  
Mood disorder induced by unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance is 
characterised by m ood symptoms (e.g., depressed or elevated mood, decreased 
engagement in pleasurable activities, increased or decreased energy levels) that 
develop during or soon after intoxication with or withdrawal from a specified 
psychoactive substance. The symptoms ar e not better explained by a primary 
mental disorder (e.g., a Depressive disorder, a Bipolar disorder, Schizoaffective 
disorder), as might be the case if the mood symptoms preceded the onset of the 
use of the unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance, i f the symptoms persist 
for a substantial period of time after cessation of the use of the unknown or 
unspecified psychoactive substance or withdrawal from the unknown or unspecified 
psychoactive substance, or if there is other evidence of a pre -existing pr imary 
mental disorder with mood symptoms (e.g., a history of prior episodes not 
associated with the use of the unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 552  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C4G.71  Anxiety disorder induced by unknown or unsp ecified psychoactive substance  
Anxiety disorder induced by unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance is 
characterised by anxiety symptoms (e.g., apprehension or worry, fear, physiological 
symptoms of excessive autonomic arousal, avoidance behaviour) th at develop 
during or soon after intoxication with or withdrawal from an unknown or unspecified 
psychoactive substance. The symptoms are not better explained by a primary 
mental disorder (e.g., an Anxiety and fear -related disorder, a Depressive disorder 
with prominent anxiety symptoms), as might be the case if the anxiety symptoms 
preceded the onset of the use of the unknown or unspecified psychoactive 
substance, if the symptoms persist for a substantial period of time after cessation of 
the use of the unkno wn or unspecified psychoactive substance or withdrawal from 
the unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance, or if there is other evidence of 
a pre -existing primary mental disorder with anxiety symptoms (e.g., a history of prior 
episodes not associated w ith the use of the unknown or unspecified psychoactive 
substance).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4G.72  Obsessive -compulsive or related disorder induced by unknown or unspecified 
psychoactive substance  
Obsessive -compulsive or related disorder induced by unknown or unspecified 
psychoactive substance is characterised by either repetitive intrusive thoughts or 
preoccupations, normally associated with anxiety and typically accompanied by 
repetitive behaviour s performed in response, or by recurrent and habitual actions 
directed at the integument (e.g., hair pulling, skin picking) that develop during or 
soon after intoxication with or withdrawal from an unknown or unspecified 
psychoactive substance. The symptom s are not better explained by a primary 
mental disorder (in particular an Obsessive -compulsive or related disorder), as 
might be the case if the symptoms preceded the onset of the unknown or 
unspecified psychoactive substance use, if the symptoms persist f or a substantial 
period of time after cessation of use or withdrawal of the unknown or unspecified 
psychoactive substance, or if there is other evidence of a pre -existing primary 
mental disorder with obsessive -compulsive or related symptoms (e.g., a histor y of 
prior episodes not associated with the unknown or unspecified psychoactive 
substance use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 ICD-11 MMS  553 
 6C4G.73  Impulse control disorder induced by unknown or unspecified psychoactive 
substance  
Impulse control disorder induced by unknown or unspecified psychoactive 
substance is characterised by persistently repeated behaviours in which there is 
recurrent failure to resist an impulse, drive, or urge to perform an act that is 
rewarding to the perso n, at least in the short -term, despite longer -term harm either 
to the individual or to others (e.g., fire setting or stealing without apparent motive, 
repetitive sexual behaviour, aggressive outbursts) that develop during or soon after 
intoxication with or  withdrawal from an unknown or unspecified psychoactive 
substance. The symptoms are not better explained by a primary mental disorder 
(e.g., an Impulse control disorder, a Disorder due to addictive behaviours), as might 
be the case if the impulse control d isturbances preceded the onset of the unknown 
or unspecified psychoactive substance use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial 
period of time after cessation of use or withdrawal of the unknown or unspecified 
psychoactive substance, or if there is othe r evidence of a pre -existing primary 
mental disorder with impulse control symptoms (e.g., a history of prior episodes not 
associated with the unknown or unspecified psychoactive substance use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4G.Y  Other spe cified disorders due to use of unknown or unspecified psychoactive 
substances  
 
6C4G.Z  Disorders due to use of unknown or unspecified psychoactive substances, 
unspecified  
 
  6C4H   Disorders due to use of non -psychoactive substances  
Disorders due to use of non-psychoactive substances are characterised by the 
pattern and consequences of non -medical use of non -psychoactive substances. 
Non-psychoactive substances include laxatives, anabolic steroids, growth hormone, 
erythropoietin, and non -steroidal anti -inflam matory drugs. They may also include 
proprietary or over -the-counter medicines and folk remedies. Non -medical use of 
these substances may be associated with harm to the individual due to the direct or 
secondary toxic effects of the non -psychoactive substanc e on body organs and 
systems, or a harmful route of administration (e.g., infections due to intravenous 
self-administration). They are not associated with intoxication or with a dependence 
or withdrawal syndrome and are not recognized causes of substance -induced 
mental disorders.  
 
6C4H.0  Episode of harmful use of non -psychoactive substances  
An episode of use of a non -psychoactive substance that has caused damage to a 
person’s physical or mental health. Harm to health of the individual occurs due to 
direct o r secondary toxic effects on body organs and systems or a harmful route of 
administration. This diagnosis should not be made if the harm is attributed to a 
known pattern of non -psychoactive substance use.  
Exclusions:  Harmful pattern of use of non -psychoact ive substances 
(6C4H.1)  
 554  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C4H.1  Harmful pattern of use of non -psychoactive substances  
A pattern of use of non -psychoactive substances that has caused clinically 
significant harm to a person’s physical or mental health. The pattern of use is 
evident over a period of at least 12 months if use is episodic and at least one month 
if use is continuous (i.e., daily or almost daily). Harm may be caused by the direct or 
secondary toxic effects of the substance on body organs and systems, or a harmful 
route of admini stration.  
Exclusions:  Harmful pattern of use of other specified psychoactive 
substance (6C4E.1)  
Episode of harmful use of non -psychoactive substances 
(6C4H.0)  
 
6C4H.10  Harmful pattern of use of non -psychoactive substances, episodic  
A pattern of episodic or  intermittent use of a non -psychoactive substance that has 
caused damage to a person’s physical or mental health. The pattern of episodic or 
intermittent use of the non -psychoactive substance is evident over a period of at 
least 12 months. Harm may be caus ed by the direct or secondary toxic effects on 
body organs and systems, or a harmful route of administration.  
 
6C4H.11  Harmful pattern of use of non -psychoactive substances, continuous  
A pattern of continuous use of a non -psychoactive substance (daily or a lmost daily) 
that has caused damage to a person’s physical or mental health. The pattern of 
continuous use of the non -psychoactive substance is evident over a period of at 
least one month. Harm may be caused by the direct or secondary toxic effects on 
body  organs and systems, or a harmful route of administration.  
 
6C4H.1Z  Harmful pattern of use of non -psychoactive substances, unspecified  
 
6C4H.Y  Other specified disorders due to use of non -psychoactive substances  
 
6C4H.Z  Disorders due to use of non -psychoactive substances, unspecified  
 
  6C4Y   Other specified disorders due to substance use  
 
  6C4Z   Disorders due to substance use, unspecified  
 ICD-11 MMS  555 
 Disorders due to addictive behaviours (6C50 ‑6C5Z)  
Disorders due to addictive behaviours are recognizable and clinically significant syndromes 
associated with distress or interference with personal functions that develop as a result of repetitive 
rewarding beh aviours other than the use of dependence -producing substances. Disorders due to 
addictive behaviours include gambling disorder and gaming disorder, which may involve both online 
and offline behaviour.  
Exclusions:  Compulsive sexual behaviour disorder (6C72)  
Paraphilic disorders  (6D30‑6D3Z)  
  6C50   Gambling disorder  
Gambling disorder is characterised by a pattern of persistent or recurrent gambling 
behaviour, which may be online (i.e., over the internet) or offline, manifested by:  
1. impaired control over gambling (e.g., onset, frequency, intensity, duration, 
termination, context);  
2. increasing priority given to gambling to the extent that gambling takes 
precedence over other life interests and daily activities; and  
3. continuation  or escalation of gambling despite the occurrence of negative 
consequences.  
The pattern of gambling behaviour may be continuous or episodic and recurrent. 
The pattern of gambling behaviour results in significant distress or in significant 
impairment in per sonal, family, social, educational, occupational or other important 
areas of functioning. The gambling behaviour and other features are normally 
evident over a period of at least 12 months in order for a diagnosis to be assigned, 
although the required dura tion may be shortened if all diagnostic requirements are 
met and symptoms are severe.  
Inclusions:  Compulsive gambling  
Exclusions:  Bipolar type I disorder (6A60)  
Bipolar type II disorder (6A61)  
Hazardous gambling or betting (QE21)  
 
6C50.0  Gambling disorder,  predominantly offline  
Gambling disorder, predominantly offline is characterised by a pattern of persistent or recurrent 
gambling behaviour that is not primarily conducted over the internet and is manifested by:  
1. impaired control over gambling (e.g., onset, frequency, intensity, duration, termination, 
context);  
2. increasing priority given to gambling to the extent that gambling takes precedence over other 
life interests and daily activities; and  
3. continuation or escalation of gambling despite the occurrence of negative consequences. The 
behaviour pattern is of sufficient severity to result in significant impairment in personal, family, 
social, educational, occupational or other important areas of functioning.  
The pattern of gambling behaviour may be continuous or episodic and recurren t. The gambling 
behaviour and other features are normally evident over a period of at least 12 months in order for a 
diagnosis to be assigned, although the required duration may be shortened if all diagnostic 
requirements are met and symptoms are severe.  
Exclusions:  Hazardous gambling or betting (QE21)  
 556  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C50.1  Gambling disorder, predominantly online  
Gambling disorder, predominantly online is characterised by a pattern of persistent or recurrent 
gambling behaviour that is primarily conducted over the internet and is manifested by:  
1. impaired control over gambling (e.g., onset, frequency, intensity, durat ion, termination, 
context);  
2. increasing priority given to gambling to the extent that gambling takes precedence over other 
life interests and daily activities; and  
3. continuation or escalation of gambling despite the occurrence of negative consequences. The 
behaviour pattern is of sufficient severity to result in significant impairment in personal, family, 
social, educational, occupational or other important areas of functioning.  
The pattern of gambling behaviour may be continuous or episodic and recurrent. Th e gambling 
behaviour and other features are normally evident over a period of at least 12 months in order for a 
diagnosis to be assigned, although the required duration may be shortened if all diagnostic 
requirements are met and symptoms are severe.  
Exclusions:  Hazardous gambling or betting (QE21)  
 
6C50.Z  Gambling disorder, unspecified  
 
  6C51   Gaming disorder  
Gaming disorder is characterised by a pattern of persistent or recurrent gaming 
behaviour (‘digital gaming’ or ‘video -gaming’), which may be online (i.e., over the 
internet) or offline, manifested by:  
1. impaired control over gaming (e.g., onset, frequency , intensity, duration, 
termination, context);  
2. increasing priority given to gaming to the extent that gaming takes precedence 
over other life interests and daily activities; and  
3. continuation or escalation of gaming despite the occurrence of negative 
consequences.  
The pattern of gaming behaviour may be continuous or episodic and recurrent. The 
pattern of gaming behaviour results in marked distress or significant impairment in 
personal, family, social, educational, occupational, or other important areas of 
functioning. The gaming behaviour and other features are normally evident over a 
period of at least 12 months in order for a diagnosis to be assigned, although the 
required duration may be shortened if all diagnostic requirements are met and 
symptoms ar e severe.  
Exclusions:  Hazardous gaming (QE22)  
Bipolar type I disorder (6A60)  
Bipolar type II disorder (6A61)  
 
6C51.0  Gaming disorder, predominantly online  
Gaming disorder, predominantly online is characterised by a pattern of persistent or recurrent gaming 
behaviour (‘digital gaming’ or ‘video -gaming’) that is primarily conducted over the internet and is 
manifested by:  
1. impaired control over gaming (e.g., ons et, frequency, intensity, duration, termination, context);  
2. increasing priority given to gaming to the extent that gaming takes precedence over other life 
interests and daily activities; and  ICD-11 MMS  557 
 3. continuation or escalation of gaming despite the occurrence of neg ative consequences. The 
behaviour pattern is of sufficient severity to result in significant impairment in personal, family, 
social, educational, occupational or other important areas of functioning.  
The pattern of gaming behaviour may be continuous or epi sodic and recurrent. The gaming behaviour 
and other features are normally evident over a period of at least 12 months in order for a diagnosis to 
be assigned, although the required duration may be shortened if all diagnostic requirements are met 
and sympto ms are severe.  
 
6C51.1  Gaming disorder, predominantly offline  
Gaming disorder, predominantly offline is characterised by a pattern of persistent or recurrent gaming 
behaviour (‘digital gaming’ or ‘video -gaming’) that is not primarily conducted over the internet and is 
manifested by:  
1. impaired control over gaming (e.g. , onset, frequency, intensity, duration, termination, context);  
2. increasing priority given to gaming to the extent that gaming takes precedence over other life 
interests and daily activities; and  
3. continuation or escalation of gaming despite the occurrence o f negative consequences. The 
behaviour pattern is of sufficient severity to result in significant impairment in personal, family, 
social, educational, occupational or other important areas of functioning.  
The pattern of gaming behaviour may be continuous o r episodic and recurrent. The gaming behaviour 
and other features are normally evident over a period of at least 12 months in order for a diagnosis to 
be assigned, although the required duration may be shortened if all diagnostic requirements are met 
and s ymptoms are severe.  
 
6C51.Z  Gaming disorder, unspecified  
 
  6C5Y   Other  specified disorders due to addictive behaviours  
 
  6C5Z   Disorders due to addictive behaviours, unspecified  
 558  ICD-11 MMS  
 Impulse control disorders (6C70 ‑6C7Z)  
Impulse control disorders are characterised by the repeated failure to resist an impulse, drive, or urge 
to perform an act that is rewarding to the person, at least in the short -term, despite consequences 
such as longer -term harm either to the individual o r to others, marked distress about the behaviour 
pattern, or significant impairment in personal, family, social, educational, occupational, or other 
important areas of functioning. Impulse Control Disorders involve a range of specific behaviours, 
including  fire-setting, stealing, sexual behaviour, and explosive outbursts.  
Coded Elsewhere:  Substance -induced impulse control disorders  
Gambling disorder (6C50)  
Gaming disorder (6C51)  
Secondary impulse control syndrome (6E66)  
Body -focused repetitive behaviour disorders (6B25)  
  6C70   Pyromania  
Pyromania is characterised by a recurrent failure to control strong impulses to set 
fires, resulting in multiple acts of, or attempts at, settin g fire to property or other 
objects, in the absence of an apparent motive (e.g., monetary gain, revenge, 
sabotage, political statement, attracting attention or recognition). There is an 
increasing sense of tension or affective arousal prior to instances of  fire setting, 
persistent fascination or preoccupation with fire and related stimuli (e.g., watching 
fires, building fires, fascination with firefighting equipment), and a sense of pleasure, 
excitement, relief or gratification during, and immediately after  the act of setting the 
fire, witnessing its effects, or participating in its aftermath. The behaviour is not 
better explained by intellectual impairment, another mental and behavioural 
disorder, or substance intoxication.  
Inclusions:  pathological fire -setting 
Exclusions:  Conduct -dissocial disorder (6C91)  
Bipolar type I disorder (6A60)  
Schizophrenia or other primary psychotic disorders  
(6A20‑6A2Z)  
Fire-setting as the reason for observation for suspected mental 
or behavioural disorders, ruled out (QA02.3)  
 
  6C71   Kleptomania  
Kleptomania is characterised by a recurrent failure to control strong impulses to 
steal objects in the absence of an apparent motive (e.g., objects are not acquired 
for personal use or monetary gain). There is an increasing sense of ten sion or 
affective arousal before instances of theft and a sense of pleasure, excitement, 
relief, or gratification during and immediately after the act of stealing. The behaviour 
is not better explained by intellectual impairment, another mental and behavio ural 
disorder, or substance intoxication.  
Coding Note:  If stealing occurs within the context of conduct -dissocial disorder or a manic 
episode, Kleptomania should not be diagnosed separately.  
Inclusions:  pathological stealing  
Exclusions:  shoplifting as the reason for observation for suspected mental 
disorder, ruled out (QA02.3)  
 ICD-11 MMS  559 
   6C72   Compulsive sexual behaviour disorder  
Compulsive sexual behaviour disorder is characterised by a persistent pattern of 
failure to control intense, repetitive sexual impulses or urges resulting in repetitive 
sexual behaviour. Symptoms may include repetitive sexual activities becoming a 
central focus of the person’s life to the point of neglecting health and personal care 
or other interests, activities and responsibilities; nume rous unsuccessful efforts to 
significantly reduce repetitive sexual behaviour; and continued repetitive sexual 
behaviour despite adverse consequences or deriving little or no satisfaction from it. 
The pattern of failure to control intense, sexual impulses or urges and resulting 
repetitive sexual behaviour is manifested over an extended period of time (e.g., 6 
months or more), and causes marked distress or significant impairment in personal, 
family, social, educational, occupational, or other important areas  of functioning. 
Distress that is entirely related to moral judgments and disapproval about sexual 
impulses, urges, or behaviours is not sufficient to meet this requirement.  
Exclusions:  Paraphilic disorders  (6D30‑6D3Z)  
 
  6C73   Intermittent explosive disorder  
Intermittent explosive disorder is characterised by repeated brief episodes of verbal 
or physical aggression or destruction of property that represent a failure to control 
aggressive impulses, with the intensity of the outbu rst or degree of aggressiveness 
being grossly out of proportion to the provocation or precipitating psychosocial 
stressors. The symptoms are not better explained by another mental, behavioural, 
or neurodevelopmental disorder and are not part of a pattern o f chronic anger and 
irritability (e.g., in oppositional defiant disorder). The behaviour pattern is of 
sufficient severity to result in significant impairment in personal, family, social, 
educational, occupational or other important areas of functioning.  
Exclusions:  Oppositional defiant disorder (6C90)  
 
  6C7Y   Other specified impulse control disorders  
 
  6C7Z   Impulse control disorders, unspecified  
 560  ICD-11 MMS  
 Disruptive behaviour or dissocial disorders (6C90 ‑6C9Z)  
Disruptive behaviour and dissocial disorders are c haracterised by persistent behaviour problems that 
range from markedly and persistently defiant, disobedient, provocative or spiteful (i.e., disruptive) 
behaviours to those that persistently violate the basic rights of others or major age -appropriate 
socie tal norms, rules, or laws (i.e., dissocial). Onset of Disruptive and dissocial disorders is 
commonly, though not always, during childhood.  
  6C90   Oppositional defiant disorder  
Oppositional defiant disorder is a persistent pattern (e.g., 6 months or more)  of 
markedly defiant, disobedient, provocative or spiteful behaviour that occurs more 
frequently than is typically observed in individuals of comparable age and 
developmental level and that is not restricted to interaction with siblings. 
Oppositional defia nt disorder may be manifest in prevailing, persistent angry or 
irritable mood, often accompanied by severe temper outbursts or in headstrong, 
argumentative and defiant behaviour. The behaviour pattern is of sufficient severity 
to result in significant impa irment in personal, family, social, educational, 
occupational or other important areas of functioning  
 
6C90.0  Oppositional defiant disorder with chronic irritability -anger  
All definitional requirements for oppositional defiant disorder are met. This form o f 
oppositional defiant disorder is characterised by prevailing, persistent angry or 
irritable mood that may be present independent of any apparent provocation. The 
negative mood is often accompanied by regularly occurring severe temper outbursts 
that are g rossly out of proportion in intensity or duration to the provocation. Chronic 
irritability and anger are characteristic of the individual’s functioning nearly every 
day, are observable across multiple settings or domains of functioning (e.g., home, 
school,  social relationships), and are not restricted to the individual’s relationship 
with his/her parents or guardians. The pattern of chronic irritability and anger is not 
limited to occasional episodes (e.g., developmentally typical irritability) or discrete 
periods (e.g., irritable mood in the context of manic or depressive episodes).  
 
6C90.00  Oppositional defiant disorder with chronic irritability -anger with limited prosocial 
emotions  
All definitional requirements for oppositional defiant disorder with chronic irritability -
anger are met. In addition, the individual exhibits characteristics that  are sometimes 
referred to as ‘callous and unemotional’. These characteristics include a lack of 
empathy or sensitivity to the feelings of others and a lack of concern for others’ 
distress; a lack of remorse, shame or guilt over their own behaviour (unless  
prompted by being apprehended), a relative indifference to the probability of 
punishment; a lack of concern over poor performance in school or work; and limited 
expression of emotions, particularly positive or loving feelings toward others, or only 
doing so in ways that seem shallow, insincere, or instrumental.  
 
6C90.01  Oppositional defiant disorder with chronic irritability -anger with typical prosocial 
emotions  
All definitional requirements for oppositional defiant disorder with chronic irritability -
anger  are met. The individual does not exhibit characteristics referred to as ‘callous 
and unemotional’, such as lack of empathy or sensitivity to the feelings of others 
and a lack of concern for others’ distress.  
 
6C90.0Z  Oppositional defiant disorder with chr onic irritability -anger, unspecified  
 ICD-11 MMS  561 
 6C90.1  Oppositional defiant disorder without chronic irritability -anger  
Meets all definitional requirements for oppositional defiant disorder. This form of 
oppositional defiant disorder is not characterised by prevaili ng, persistent, angry or 
irritable mood, but does feature headstrong, argumentative, and defiant behaviour.  
 
6C90.10  Oppositional defiant disorder without chronic irritability -anger with limited prosocial 
emotions  
All definitional requirements for oppositional defiant disorder without chronic 
irritability -anger are met. In addition, the individual exhibits characteristic s that are 
sometimes referred to as ‘callous and unemotional’. These characteristics include a 
lack of empathy or sensitivity to the feelings of others and a lack of concern for 
others’ distress; a lack of remorse, shame or guilt over their own behaviour ( unless 
prompted by being apprehended), a relative indifference to the probability of 
punishment; a lack of concern over poor performance in school or work; and limited 
expression of emotions, particularly positive or loving feelings toward others, or only 
doing so in ways that seem shallow, insincere, or instrumental. This pattern is 
pervasive across situations and relationships (i.e., the qualifier should not be 
applied based on a single characteristic, a single relationship, or a single instance of 
behavi our) and is persistent over time (e.g., at least 1 year).  
 
6C90.11  Oppositional defiant disorder without chronic irritability -anger with typical prosocial 
emotions  
All definitional requirements for oppositional defiant disorder without chronic 
irritability -anger are met. The individual does not exhibit characteristics referred to 
as ‘callous and unemotional’, such as lack of empathy or sensitivity to the feelings 
of others and a lack of concern for others’ distress.  
 
6C90.1Z  Oppositional defiant disorder wi thout chronic irritability -anger, unspecified  
 
6C90.Z  Oppositional defiant disorder, unspecified  
 
  6C91   Conduct -dissocial disorder  
Conduct -dissocial disorder is characterised by a repetitive and persistent pattern of 
behaviour in which the basic rights of others or major age -appropriate societal 
norms, rules, or laws are violated such as aggression towards people or animals; 
destruction of property; deceitfulness or theft; and serious violations of rules. The 
behaviour pattern is of sufficient severity t o result in significant impairment in 
personal, family, social, educational, occupational or other important areas of 
functioning. To be diagnosed, the behaviour pattern must be enduring over a 
significant period of time (e.g., 12 months or more). Isolated  dissocial or criminal 
acts are thus not in themselves grounds for the diagnosis.  
 
6C91.0  Conduct -dissocial disorder, childhood onset  
Conduct -dissocial disorder, childhood onset is characterised by a repetitive and 
persistent pattern of behaviour in which the basic rights of others or major age -
appropriate societal norms, rules, or laws are violated such as aggression towards 
people or animals; destruction of property; deceitfulness or theft; and serious 
violations of rules. To be diagnosed, features of the  disorder must be present during 
childhood prior to adolescence (e.g., before 10 years of age) and the behaviour 
pattern must be enduring over a significant period of time (e.g., 12 months or more). 
Isolated dissocial or criminal acts are thus not in thems elves grounds for the 
diagnosis.  
 562  ICD-11 MMS  
 6C91.00  Conduct -dissocial disorder, childhood onset with limited prosocial emotions  
Meets all definitional requirements for Conduct -dissocial disorder, childhood onset. 
In addition, the individual exhibits characteristics that are sometimes referred to as 
‘callous and unemotional’. These characteristics include a lack of empathy or 
sensitivity to the feelings of others and a lack of concern for others’ distress; a lack 
of remorse, shame or guilt over their own behaviour (un less prompted by being 
apprehended), a relative indifference to the probability of punishment; a lack of 
concern over poor performance in school or work; and limited expression of 
emotions, particularly positive or loving feelings toward others, or only do ing so in 
ways that seem shallow, insincere, or instrumental.  
 
6C91.01  Conduct -dissocial disorder, childhood onset with typical prosocial emotions  
All definitional requirements for conduct -dissocial disorder, childhood onset are met. 
The individual does no t exhibit characteristics referred to as ‘callous and 
unemotional’, such as lack of empathy or sensitivity to the feelings of others and a 
lack of concern for others’ distress.  
 
6C91.0Z  Conduct -dissocial disorder, childhood onset, unspecified  
 
6C91.1  Condu ct-dissocial disorder, adolescent onset  
Conduct -dissocial disorder, adolescent onset is characterised by a repetitive and 
persistent pattern of behaviour in which the basic rights of others or major age -
appropriate societal norms, rules, or laws are violat ed such as aggression towards 
people or animals; destruction of property; deceitfulness or theft; and serious 
violations of rules. No features of the disorder are present during childhood prior to 
adolescence (e.g., before 10 years of age). To be diagnosed , the behaviour pattern 
must be enduring over a significant period of time (e.g., 12 months or more). 
Isolated dissocial or criminal acts are thus not in themselves grounds for the 
diagnosis.  
 
6C91.10  Conduct -dissocial disorder, adolescent onset with limit ed prosocial emotions  
All definitional requirements for conduct -dissocial disorder, adolescent onset are 
met. In addition, the individual exhibits characteristics that are sometimes referred 
to as ‘callous and unemotional’. These characteristics include a lack of empathy or 
sensitivity to the feelings of others and a lack of concern for others’ distress; a lack 
of remorse, shame or guilt over their own behaviour (unless prompted by being 
apprehended), a relative indifference to the probability of punishment; a lack of 
concern ov er poor performance in school or work; and limited expression of 
emotions, particularly positive or loving feelings toward others, or only doing so in 
ways that seem shallow, insincere, or instrumental.  
 
6C91.11  Conduct -dissocial disorder, adolescent onset  with typical prosocial emotions  
All definitional requirements for conduct -dissocial disorder, adolescent onset are 
met. The individual does not exhibit characteristics referred to as ‘callous and 
unemotional’, such as lack of empathy or sensitivity to the  feelings of others and a 
lack of concern for others’ distress.  
 
6C91.1Y  Other specified conduct -dissocial disorder, adolescent onset  
 
6C91.Z  Conduct -dissocial disorder, unspecified  
 
  6C9Y   Other specified disruptive behaviour or dissocial disorders  
 ICD-11 MMS  563 
   6C9Z   Disruptive behaviour or dissocial disorders, unspecified  
 
Personality disorders and related traits (6D10 ‑6D11.5)  
Coded Elsewhere:  Secondary personality change (6E68)  
  6D10   Personality  disorder  
Personality disorder is characterised by problems in functioning of aspects of the 
self (e.g., identity, self -worth, accuracy of self -view, self -direction), and/or 
interpersonal dysfunction (e.g., ability to develop and maintain close and mutuall y 
satisfying relationships, ability to understand others’ perspectives and to manage 
conflict in relationships) that have persisted over an extended period of time (e.g., 2 
years or more). The disturbance is manifest in patterns of cognition, emotional 
experience, emotional expression, and behaviour that are maladaptive (e.g., 
inflexible or poorly regulated) and is manifest across a range of personal and social 
situations (i.e., is not limited to specific relationships or social roles). The patterns of 
beha viour characterizing the disturbance are not developmentally appropriate and 
cannot be explained primarily by social or cultural factors, including socio -political 
conflict. The disturbance is associated with substantial distress or significant 
impairment in personal, family, social, educational, occupational or other important 
areas of functioning.  
 
6D10.0  Mild personality disorder  
All general diagnostic requirements for Personality Disorder are met. Disturbances 
affect some areas of personality functionin g but not others (e.g., problems with self -
direction in the absence of problems with stability and coherence of identity or self -
worth), and may not be apparent in some contexts. There are problems in many 
interpersonal relationships and/or in performance of expected occupational and 
social roles, but some relationships are maintained and/or some roles carried out. 
Specific manifestations of personality disturbances are generally of mild severity. 
Mild Personality Disorder is typically not associated with s ubstantial harm to self or 
others, but may be associated with substantial distress or with impairment in 
personal, family, social, educational, occupational or other important areas of 
functioning that is either limited to circumscribed areas (e.g., romant ic relationships; 
employment) or present in more areas but milder.  
 564  ICD-11 MMS  
 6D10.1  Moderate personality disorder  
All general diagnostic requirements for Personality Disorder are met. Disturbances 
affect multiple areas of personality functioning (e.g., identity or sense of self, ability 
to form intimate relationships, ability to control impulses and modulate behaviour). 
However, some areas of personality functioning may be relatively less affected. 
There are marked problems in most interpersonal relationships and th e 
performance of most expected social and occupational roles is compromised to 
some degree. Relationships are likely to be characterised by conflict, avoidance, 
withdrawal, or extreme dependency (e.g., few friendships maintained, persistent 
conflict in wor k relationships and consequent occupational problems, romantic 
relationships characterised by serious disruption or inappropriate submissiveness). 
Specific manifestations of personality disturbance are generally of moderate 
severity. Moderate Personality D isorder is sometimes associated with harm to self 
or others, and is associated with marked impairment in personal, family, social, 
educational, occupational or other important areas of functioning, although 
functioning in circumscribed areas may be maintai ned. 
 
6D10.2  Severe personality disorder  
All general diagnostic requirements for Personality Disorder are met. There are 
severe disturbances in functioning of the self (e.g., sense of self may be so unstable 
that individuals report not having a sense of wh o they are or so rigid that they refuse 
to participate in any but an extremely narrow range of situations; self view may be 
characterised by self -contempt or be grandiose or highly eccentric). Problems in 
interpersonal functioning seriously affect virtuall y all relationships and the ability and 
willingness to perform expected social and occupational roles is absent or severely 
compromised. Specific manifestations of personality disturbance are severe and 
affect most, if not all, areas of personality functio ning. Severe Personality Disorder 
is often associated with harm to self or others, and is associated with severe 
impairment in all or nearly all areas of life, including personal, family, social, 
educational, occupational, and other important areas of func tioning.  
 
6D10.Z  Personality disorder, severity unspecified  
 
  6D11   Prominent personality traits or patterns  
Trait domain qualifiers may be applied to Personality Disorders or Personality 
Difficulty to describe the characteristics of the individual’s personality that are most 
prominent and that contribute to personality disturbance. Trait domains are 
continuous w ith normal personality characteristics in individuals who do not have 
Personality Disorder or Personality Difficulty. Trait domains are not diagnostic 
categories, but rather represent a set of dimensions that correspond to the 
underlying structure of perso nality. As many trait domain qualifiers may be applied 
as necessary to describe personality functioning. Individuals with more severe 
personality disturbance tend to have a greater number of prominent trait domains.  
 ICD-11 MMS  565 
 6D11.0  Negative affectivity in personal ity disorder or personality difficulty  
The core feature of the Negative Affectivity trait domain is the tendency to 
experience a broad range of negative emotions. Common manifestations of 
Negative Affectivity, not all of which may be present in a given ind ividual at a given 
time, include: experiencing a broad range of negative emotions with a frequency 
and intensity out of proportion to the situation; emotional lability and poor emotion 
regulation; negativistic attitudes; low self -esteem and self -confidence ; and 
mistrustfulness.  
Coding Note:  This category should ONLY be used in combination with a Personality disorder 
category (Mild, Moderate, or Severe) or Personality difficulty.  
 
6D11.1  Detachment in personality disorder or personality difficulty  
The core f eature of the Detachment trait domain is the tendency to maintain 
interpersonal distance (social detachment) and emotional distance (emotional 
detachment). Common manifestations of Detachment, not all of which may be 
present in a given individual at a give n time, include: social detachment (avoidance 
of social interactions, lack of friendships, and avoidance of intimacy); and emotional 
detachment (reserve, aloofness, and limited emotional expression and experience).  
Coding Note:  This category should ONLY be  used in combination with a Personality disorder 
category (Mild, Moderate, or Severe) or Personality difficulty.  
 
6D11.2  Dissociality in personality disorder or personality difficulty  
The core feature of the Dissociality trait domain is disregard for the r ights and 
feelings of others, encompassing both self -centeredness and lack of empathy. 
Common manifestations of Dissociality, not all of which may be present in a given 
individual at a given time, include: self -centeredness (e.g., sense of entitlement, 
expectation of others’ admiration, positive or negative attention -seeking behaviours, 
concern with one's own needs, desires and comfort and not those of others); and 
lack of empathy (i.e., indifference to whether one’s actions inconvenience or hurt 
others, wh ich may include being deceptive, manipulative, and exploitative of others, 
being mean and physically aggressive, callousness in response to others' suffering, 
and ruthlessness in obtaining one’s goals).  
Coding Note:  This category should ONLY be used in com bination with a Personality disorder 
category (Mild, Moderate, or Severe) or Personality difficulty.  
 
6D11.3  Disinhibition in personality disorder or personality difficulty  
The core feature of the Disinhibition trait domain is the tendency to act rashly ba sed 
on immediate external or internal stimuli (i.e., sensations, emotions, thoughts), 
without consideration of potential negative consequences. Common manifestations 
of Disinhibition, not all of which may be present in a given individual at a given time, 
include: impulsivity; distractibility; irresponsibility; recklessness; and lack of 
planning.  
Coding Note:  This category should ONLY be used in combination with a Personality disorder 
category (Mild, Moderate, or Severe) or Personality difficulty.  
 566  ICD-11 MMS  
 6D11.4  Anankastia in personality disorder or personality difficulty  
The core feature of the Anankastia trait domain is a narrow focus on one’s rigid 
standard of perfection and of right and wrong, and on controlling one’s own and 
others’ behaviour and controlling si tuations to ensure conformity to these standards. 
Common manifestations of Anankastia, not all of which may be present in a given 
individual at a given time, include: perfectionism (e.g., concern with social rules, 
obligations, and norms of right and wrong , scrupulous attention to detail, rigid, 
systematic, day -to-day routines, hyper -scheduling and planfulness, emphasis on 
organisation, orderliness, and neatness); and emotional and behavioural constraint 
(e.g., rigid control over emotional expression, stubb ornness and inflexibility, risk -
avoidance, perseveration, and deliberativeness).  
Coding Note:  This category should ONLY be used in combination with a Personality disorder 
category (Mild, Moderate, or Severe) or Personality difficulty.  
 
6D11.5  Borderline pattern  
The Borderline pattern specifier may be applied to individuals whose pattern of 
personal ity disturbance is characterised by a pervasive pattern of instability of 
interpersonal relationships, self -image, and affects, and marked impulsivity, as 
indicated by many of the following: Frantic efforts to avoid real or imagined 
abandonment; A pattern of unstable and intense interpersonal relationships; Identity 
disturbance, manifested in markedly and persistently unstable self -image or sense 
of self; A tendency to act rashly in states of high negative affect, leading to 
potentially self -damaging behavi ours; Recurrent episodes of self -harm; Emotional 
instability due to marked reactivity of mood; Chronic feelings of emptiness; 
Inappropriate intense anger or difficulty controlling anger; Transient dissociative 
symptoms or psychotic -like features in situati ons of high affective arousal.  
Coding Note:  This category should ONLY be used in combination with a Personality disorder 
category (Mild, Moderate, or Severe) or Personality difficulty.  
 
Paraphilic disorders (6D30 ‑6D3Z)  
Paraphilic disorders are characterised by persistent and intense patterns of atypical sexual arousal, 
manifested by sexual thoughts, fantasies, urges, or behaviours, the focus of which involves others 
whose age or status renders them unwilling or unable to  consent and on which the person has acted 
or by which he or she is markedly distressed. Paraphilic disorders may include arousal patterns 
involving solitary behaviours or consenting individuals only when these are associated with marked 
distress that is n ot simply a result of rejection or feared rejection of the arousal pattern by others or 
with significant risk of injury or death.  
Inclusions:  paraphilias  
  6D30   Exhibitionistic disorder  
Exhibitionistic disorder is characterised by a sustained, focused an d intense pattern 
of sexual arousal —as manifested by persistent sexual thoughts, fantasies, urges, or 
behaviours —that involves exposing one’s genitals to an unsuspecting individual in 
public places, usually without inviting or intending closer contact. In addition, in 
order for Exhibitionistic Disorder to be diagnosed, the individual must have acted on 
these thoughts, fantasies or urges or be markedly distressed by them. 
Exhibitionistic Disorder specifically excludes consensual exhibitionistic behaviours 
that occur with the consent of the person or persons involved as well as socially 
sanctioned forms of exhibitionism.  
 ICD-11 MMS  567 
   6D31   Voyeuristic disorder  
Voyeuristic disorder is characterised by a sustained, focused and intense pattern of 
sexual arousal —as manifes ted by persistent sexual thoughts, fantasies, urges, or 
behaviours —that involves observing an unsuspecting individual who is naked, in the 
process of disrobing, or engaging in sexual activity. In addition, in order for 
Voyeuristic Disorder to be diagnosed,  the individual must have acted on these 
thoughts, fantasies or urges or be markedly distressed by them. Voyeuristic 
Disorder specifically excludes consensual voyeuristic behaviours that occur with the 
consent of the person or persons being observed.  
 
  6D32   Pedophilic disorder  
Pedophilic disorder is characterised by a sustained, focused, and intense pattern of 
sexual arousal —as manifested by persistent sexual thoughts, fantasies, urges, or 
behaviours —involving pre -pubertal children. In addition, in order  for Pedophilic 
Disorder to be diagnosed, the individual must have acted on these thoughts, 
fantasies or urges or be markedly distressed by them. This diagnosis does not 
apply to sexual behaviours among pre - or post -pubertal children with peers who are 
close in age.  
 
  6D33   Coercive sexual sadism disorder  
Coercive sexual sadism disorder is characterised by a sustained, focused and 
intense pattern of sexual arousal —as manifested by persistent sexual thoughts, 
fantasies, urges or behaviours —that involves th e infliction of physical or 
psychological suffering on a non -consenting person. In addition, in order for 
Coercive Sexual Sadism Disorder to be diagnosed, the individual must have acted 
on these thoughts, fantasies or urges or be markedly distressed by the m. Coercive 
Sexual Sadism Disorder specifically excludes consensual sexual sadism and 
masochism.  
 
  6D34   Frotteuristic disorder  
Frotteuristic disorder is characterised by a sustained, focused and intense pattern of 
sexual arousal —as manifested by persist ent sexual thoughts, fantasies, urges, or 
behaviours —that involves touching or rubbing against a non -consenting person in 
crowded public places. In addition, in order for Frotteuristic Disorder to be 
diagnosed, the individual must have acted on these thoug hts, fantasies or urges or 
be markedly distressed by them. Frotteuristic Disorder specifically excludes 
consensual touching or rubbing that occurs with the consent of the person or 
persons involved.  
 
  6D35   Other paraphilic disorder involving non -consent ing individuals  
Other paraphilic disorder involving non -consenting individuals is characterised by a 
persistent and intense pattern of atypical sexual arousal — manifested by sexual 
thoughts, fantasies, urges, or behaviours — in which the focus of the arou sal 
pattern involves others who are unwilling or unable to consent but that is not 
specifically described in any of the other named Paraphilic Disorders categories 
(e.g., arousal patterns involving corpses or animals). The individual must have 
acted on the se thoughts, fantasies or urges or be markedly distressed by them. The 
disorder specifically excludes sexual behaviours that occur with the consent of the 
person or persons involved, provided that they are considered able to provide such 
consent.  
 568  ICD-11 MMS  
   6D36   Paraphilic disorder involving solitary behaviour or consenting 
individuals  
Paraphilic disorder involving solitary behaviour or consenting individuals is 
characterised by a persistent and intense pattern of atypical sexual arousal — 
manifested by sexual th oughts, fantasies, urges, or behaviours — that involves 
consenting adults or solitary behaviours. One of the following two elements must be 
present: 1) the person is markedly distressed by the nature of the arousal pattern 
and the distress is not simply a consequence of rejection or feared rejection of the 
arousal pattern by others; or 2) the nature of the paraphilic behaviour involves 
significant risk of injury or death either to the individual or to the partner (e.g., 
asphyxophilia).  
 
  6D3Z   Paraphilic disorders, unspecified  
 
Factitious disorders (6D50 ‑6D5Z)  
Factitious disorders are characterised by intentionally feigning, falsifying, inducing, or aggravating 
medical, psychological, or behavioural signs and symptoms or injury in oneself or in another per son, 
most commonly a child dependent, associated with identified deception. A pre -existing disorder or 
disease may be present, but the individual intentionally aggravates existing symptoms or falsifies or 
induces additional symptoms. Individuals with facti tious disorder seek treatment or otherwise present 
themselves or another person as ill, injured, or impaired based on the feigned, falsified, or self -
induced signs, symptoms, or injuries. The deceptive behaviour is not solely motivated by obvious 
external rewards or incentives (e.g., obtaining disability payments or evading criminal prosecution). 
This is in contrast to Malingering, in which obvious external rewards or incentives motivate the 
behaviour.  
Exclusions:  Malingering (QC30)  
  6D50   Factitious disorder imposed on self  
Factitious disorder imposed on self is characterised by feigning, falsifying, or 
inducing medical, psychological, or behavioural signs and symptoms or injury 
associated with identified deception. If a pre -existing disord er or disease is present, 
the individual intentionally aggravates existing symptoms or falsifies or induces 
additional symptoms. The individual seeks treatment or otherwise presents himself 
or herself as ill, injured, or impaired based on the feigned, fals ified, or self -induced 
signs, symptoms, or injuries. The deceptive behaviour is not solely motivated by 
obvious external rewards or incentives (e.g., obtaining disability payments or 
evading criminal prosecution). This is in contrast to Malingering, in whi ch obvious 
external rewards or incentives motivate the behaviour  
Inclusions:  Münchhausen syndrome  
Exclusions:  Excoriation disorder (6B25.1)  
Malingering (QC30)  
 ICD-11 MMS  569 
   6D51   Factitious disorder imposed on another  
Factitious disorder imposed on another is characterised by feigning, falsifying, or 
inducing medical, psychological, or behavioural signs and symptoms or injury in 
another person, most commonly a child dependent, associated with identified 
deception. If a pre-existing disorder or disease is present in the other person, the 
individual intentionally aggravates existing symptoms or falsifies or induces 
additional symptoms. The individual seeks treatment for the other person or 
otherwise presents him or her as ill, injured, or impaired based on the feigned, 
falsified, or induced signs, symptoms, or injuries. The deceptive behaviour is not 
solely motivated by obvious external rewards or incentives (e.g., obtaining disability 
payments or avoiding criminal prosecut ion for child or elder abuse).  
Coding Note:  The diagnosis of Factitious Disorder Imposed on Another is assigned to the 
individual who is feigning, falsifying or inducing the symptoms in another person, not 
to the person who is presented as having the sympt oms. Occasionally the individual 
induces or falsifies symptoms in a pet rather than in another person.  
Exclusions:  Malingering (QC30)  
 
  6D5Z   Factitious disorders, unspecified  
 
Neurocognitive disorders (6D70 ‑6E0Z)  
Neurocognitive disorders are characteris ed by primary clinical deficits in cognitive functioning that are 
acquired rather than developmental. That is, neurocognitive disorders do not include disorders 
characterised by deficits in cognitive function that are present from birth or that typically a rise during 
the developmental period, which are classified in the grouping neurodevelopmental disorders. Rather, 
neurocognitive disorders represent a decline from a previously attained level of functioning. Although 
cognitive deficits are present in many m ental disorders (e.g., schizophrenia, bipolar disorders), only 
disorders whose core features are cognitive are included in the neurocognitive disorders grouping. In 
cases where the underlying pathology and aetiology for neurocognitive disorders can be dete rmined, 
the identified etiology should be classified separately.  
Exclusions:  Neurodevelopmental disorders  (6A00‑6A0Z)  
Coded Elsewhere:  Secondary neurocognitive syndrome (6E67)  
  6D70   Delirium  
Delirium is characterized by a disturbance of attention, orien tation, and awareness 
that develops within a short period of time, typically presenting as significant 
confusion or global neurocognitive impairment, with transient symptoms that may 
fluctuate depending on the underlying causal condition or etiology. Delir ium often 
includes disturbance of behaviour and emotion, and may include impairment in 
multiple cognitive domains. A disturbance of the sleep -wake cycle, including 
reduced arousal of acute onset or total sleep loss with reversal of the sleep -wake 
cycle, ma y also be present. Delirium may be caused by the direct physiological 
effects of a medical condition not classified under mental, behavioural or 
neurodevelopmental disorders, by the direct physiological effects of a substance or 
medication, including withd rawal, or by multiple or unknown etiological factors.  
 570  ICD-11 MMS  
 6D70.0  Delirium due to disease classified elsewhere  
All definitional requirements for delirium are met. There is evidence from history, 
physical examination, or laboratory findings that Delirium is cau sed by the direct 
physiological consequences of a disorder or disease classified elsewhere.  
Coding Note:  Identified etiology should be classified separately.  
 
6D70.1  Delirium due to psychoactive substances including medications  
All definitional requirement s for delirium are met. There is evidence from history, 
physical examination, or laboratory findings that the delirium is caused by the direct 
physiological effects of a substance or medication (including withdrawal). If the 
specific substance inducing the  delirium has been identified, it should be classified 
using the appropriate subcategory (e.g., alcohol -induced delirium).  
Coded Elsewhere:  Alcohol -induced delirium (6C40.5)  
Cannabis -induced delirium (6C41.5)  
Synthetic cannabinoid -induced delirium (6C42.5)  
Opioid -induced delirium (6C43.5)  
Sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic -induced delirium (6C44.5)  
Cocaine -induced delirium (6C45.5)  
Stimulant -induced delirium including amphetamines, 
methamphetamine or methcathinon e (6C46.5)  
Synthetic cathinone -induced delirium (6C47.5)  
Hallucinogen -induced delirium (6C49.4)  
Volatile inhalant -induced delirium (6C4B.5)  
MDMA or related drug -induced delirium, including MDA 
(6C4C.5)  
Dissociative drug -induced delirium including ketamine or PCP 
(6C4D.4)  
Delirium induced by other specified psychoactive substance 
including medications (6C4E.5)  
Delirium induced by multiple specified psychoactive 
substances including medications (6C4F.5)  
Delirium induced by unknown or unspecified psychoactive 
substance (6C4G.5)  
 
6D70.2  Delirium due to multiple etiological factors  
All definitional requirements for delirium are met. There is evidence from history, 
physical examination, or laboratory findings that the delirium is attributable to 
multiple etiologic al factors, which may include disorders or diseases not classified 
under mental and behavioural disorders, substance intoxication or withdrawal, or a 
medication.  
Coding Note:  Identified etiologies should be classified separately.  
 
6D70.Y  Delirium, other specified cause  
 
6D70.Z  Delirium, unspecified or unknown cause  
 ICD-11 MMS  571 
   6D71   Mild neurocognitive disorder  
Mild neurocognitive disorder is characterized by mild impairment in one or more 
cognitive domains relative to that expected given the indi vidual’s age and general 
premorbid level of cognitive functioning, which represents a decline from the 
individual’s previous level of functioning. Diagnosis is based on report from the 
patient, informant, or clinical observation, and is accompanied by obje ctive evidence 
of impairment by quantified clinical assessment or standardized cognitive testing. 
Cognitive impairment is not severe enough to significantly interfere with an 
individual’s ability to perform activities related to personal, family, social, 
educational, and/or occupational functioning or other important functional areas. 
Cognitive impairment is not attributable to normal aging and may be static, 
progressive, or may resolve or improve depending on underlying cause or 
treatment. Cognitive impair ment may be attributable to an underlying acquired 
disease of the nervous system, a trauma, an infection or other disease process 
affecting the brain, use of specific substances or medications, nutritional deficiency 
or exposure to toxins, or the etiology may be undetermined. The impairment is not 
due to current substance intoxication or withdrawal.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
  6D72   Amnestic disorder  
Amnestic disorder is characterised by prominent memory impairment relative to 
expectations for age and general premorbid level of cognitive functioning, which 
represents a decline from the individual’s previous level of functioning, in the 
absence of other  significant cognitive impairment. It is manifested by a deficit in 
acquiring, learning, and/or retaining new information, and may include the inability 
to recall previously learned information, without disturbance of consciousness, 
altered mental status, or delirium. Recent memory is typically more disturbed than 
remote memory, and the ability to immediately recall a limited amount of information 
is usually relatively preserved. The memory impairment is severe enough to result 
in significant impairment in personal, family, social, educational, occupational, or 
other important areas of functioning. It is presumed to be attributable to an 
underlying acquired disease of the nervous system, a trauma, an infection or other 
disease process affecting the brain, to  use of specific substances or medications, 
nutritional deficiency or exposure to toxins, or the etiology may be undetermined. 
The impairment is not due to current substance intoxication or withdrawal.  
Exclusions:  Delirium (6D70)  
Dementia  (6D80‑6D8Z)  
Mild neurocognitive disorder (6D71)  
 572  ICD-11 MMS  
 6D72.0  Amnestic disorder due to diseases classified elsewhere  
All definitional requirements for amnestic disorder are met. The memory symptoms 
are judged to be the direct pathophysiological consequence of a medical condition  
not classified under mental, behavioural and neurodevelopmental disorders, based 
on evidence from the history, physical examination, or laboratory findings. The 
symptoms are not better explained by Delirium, Dementia, another mental disorder 
(e.g., Schizo phrenia or Other Primary Psychotic Disorder, a Mood Disorder) or the 
effects of a medication or substance, including withdrawal effects. The symptoms 
are sufficiently severe to be a specific focus of clinical attention. The identified 
etiological medical c ondition should be classified separately.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
Exclusions:  amnesia: retrograde (MB21.11)  
Korsakoff syndrome, alcohol -induced or unspecified (8D44)  
Dissociative amnesia (6B61)  
Anterograde amnesia (MB21.10)  
amnesia NOS  (MB21.1)  
 
6D72.1  Amnestic disorder due to psychoactive substances including medications  
All definitional requirements for amnestic disorder are met. The memory symptoms 
are judged to be the direct consequence of psychoactive substance use. The 
intensity a nd duration of substance use must be known to be capable of producing 
memory impairment. The memory impairment may develop during or soon after 
substance intoxication or withdrawal, but its intensity and duration are substantially 
in excess of those normal ly associated with these conditions. The symptoms are not 
better accounted for by another disorder or medical condition, as might be the case 
if the amnestic symptoms preceded the onset of substance use.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6D72.1 0 Amnestic disorder due to use of alcohol  
All definitional requirements for amnestic disorder are met. The memory symptoms 
are judged to be the direct consequence of alcohol use. The intensity and duration 
of alcohol use must be known to be capable of prod ucing memory impairment. The 
memory impairment may develop during or soon after alcohol intoxication or 
withdrawal, but its intensity and duration are substantially in excess of those 
normally associated with these conditions. The symptoms are not better a ccounted 
for by another disorder or medical condition, as might be the case if the amnestic 
symptoms preceded the onset of the alcohol use.  
Coding Note:  This category should not be used to describe cognitive changes due to thiamine 
deficiency associated wi th chronic alcohol use.  
Exclusions:  Korsakoff syndrome (5B5A.11)  
Wernicke -Korsakoff Syndrome (5B5A.1)  
 ICD-11 MMS  573 
 6D72.11  Amnestic disorder due to use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics  
All definitional requirements for amnestic disorder are met. The memory sympt oms 
are judged to be the direct consequence of use of sedatives, hypnotics or 
anxiolytics. The intensity and duration of use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics 
must be known to be capable of producing memory impairment. The memory 
impairment may develo p during or soon after sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic 
intoxication or withdrawal, but its intensity and duration are substantially in excess 
of those normally associated with these conditions. The symptoms are not better 
accounted for by another disorder  or medical condition, as might be the case if the 
amnestic symptoms preceded the onset of use of sedatives, hypnotics or 
anxiolytics.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6D72.12  Amnestic disorder due to other specified psychoactive substance including 
medications  
All definitional requirements for amnestic disorder are met. The memory symptoms 
are judged to be the direct consequence of use of a specified psychoactive 
substance other than alcohol; sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics; or volatile 
inhalants. The intens ity and duration of use of the specified psychoactive substance 
must be known to be capable of producing memory impairment. The memory 
impairment may develop during or soon after specified psychoactive substance 
intoxication or withdrawal, but its intensit y and duration are substantially in excess 
of those normally associated with these conditions. The symptoms are not better 
accounted for by another disorder or medical condition, as might be the case if the 
amnestic symptoms preceded the onset of the speci fied psychoactive substance.  
 
6D72.13  Amnestic disorder due to use of volatile inhalants  
All definitional requirements for amnestic disorder are met. The memory symptoms 
are judged to be the direct consequence of use of volatile inhalants. The intensity 
and duration of use of volatile inhalants must be known to be capable of producing 
memory impairment. The memory impairment may develop during or soon after 
volatile inhalant intoxication or withdrawal, but its intensity and duration are 
substantially in exc ess of those normally associated with these conditions. The 
symptoms are not better accounted for by another disorder or medical condition, as 
might be the case if the amnestic symptoms preceded the onset of use of volatile 
inhalants.  
 
6D72.Y  Amnestic diso rder, other specified cause  
 
6D72.Z  Amnestic disorder, unknown or unspecified cause  
 574  ICD-11 MMS  
 Dementia (6D80 ‑6D8Z)  
Dementia is characterized by the presence of marked impairment in two or more cognitive domains 
relative to that expected given the individual’s age a nd general premorbid level of cognitive 
functioning, which represents a decline from the individual’s previous level of functioning. Memory 
impairment is present in most forms of dementia, but cognitive impairment is not restricted to memory 
(i.e., there i s impairment in other areas such as executive functions, attention, language, social 
cognition and judgment, psychomotor speed, visuoperceptual or visuospatial abilities). 
Neurobehavioural changes may also be present and, in some forms of dementia, may be the 
presenting symptom. Cognitive impairment is not attributable to normal aging and is severe enough to 
significantly interfere with independence in an individual’s performance of activities of daily living. The 
cognitive impairment is presumed to be attr ibutable to an underlying acquired disease of the nervous 
system, a trauma, an infection or other disease process affecting the brain, or to use of specific 
substances or medications, nutritional deficiency or exposure to toxins, or the etiology may be 
undetermined. The impairment is not due to current substance intoxication or withdrawal.  
Coding Note:  This category should only be used for primary tabulation, if the aetiology of the 
dementia is unknown. If the aetiology of the dementia is known code to the 
aetiology of the dementia for primary tabulation.  
When dementia is due to multiple aetiologies, code all that apply.  
Inclusions:  Dementia NOS  
Exclusions:  Coma (MB20.1)  
Delirium (6D70)  
Disorders of intellectual development (6A00)  
Neurodevelopmental disorde rs (6A00‑6A0Z)  
Stupor (MB20.0)  
Ageing associated decline in intrinsic capacity (MG2A)  
  6D80   Dementia due to Alzheimer disease  
Dementia due to Alzheimer disease is the most common form of dementia. Onset is 
insidious with memory impairment typically repo rted as the initial presenting 
complaint. The characteristic course is a slow but steady decline from a previous 
level of cognitive functioning with impairment in additional cognitive domains (such 
as executive functions, attention, language, social cognit ion and judgment, 
psychomotor speed, visuoperceptual or visuospatial abilities) emerging with disease 
progression. Dementia due to Alzheimer disease may be accompanied by mental 
and behavioural symptoms such as depressed mood and apathy in the initial stag es 
of the disease and may be accompanied by psychotic symptoms, irritability, 
aggression, confusion, abnormalities of gait and mobility, and seizures at later 
stages. Positive genetic testing, family history and gradual cognitive decline are 
suggestive of Dementia due to Alzheimer disease.  
Coding Note:  This category should never be used in primary tabulation. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify the 
presence of dementia in diseases classified els ewhere.  
 ICD-11 MMS  575 
 6D80.0  Dementia due to Alzheimer disease with early onset  
Dementia due to Alzheimer disease in which symptoms emerge before the age of 
65 years. It is relatively rare, representing less than 5% of all cases, and may be 
genetically determined (autosomal dominant Alzheimer disease). Clinical 
presentation may be sim ilar to cases with later onset, but progression of cognitive 
deficits may be more rapid.  
Coding Note:  This category should never be used in primary tabulation. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identi fy the 
presence of dementia in diseases classified elsewhere.  
When dementia is due to multiple aetiologies, code all that apply.  
 
6D80.1  Dementia due to Alzheimer disease with late onset  
Dementia due to Alzheimer disease that develops at the age of 65 year s or above. 
This is the most common pattern, representing more than 95% of all cases.  
Coding Note:  This category should never be used in primary tabulation. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify the 
presence of dementia in diseases classified elsewhere.  
When dementia is due to multiple aetiologies, code all that apply.  
 
6D80.2  Alzheimer disease dementia, mixed type, with cerebrovascular disease  
Dementia due to Alzheimer disease and concomitant cer ebrovascular disease.  
Coding Note:  This category should never be used in primary tabulation. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify the 
presence of dementia in diseases classified elsewhere.  
When dementia is due to multiple aetiologies, code all that apply.  
 
6D80.3  Alzheimer disease dementia, mixed type, with other nonvascular aetiologies  
Dementia due to Alzheimer disease with other concomitant pathology, not including 
cerebrovascular disease.  
Coding Note:  This category should never be used in primary tabulation. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is  desired to identify the 
presence of dementia in diseases classified elsewhere.  
When dementia is due to multiple aetiologies, code all that apply.  
 
6D80.Z  Dementia due to Alzheimer disease, onset unknown or unspecified  
Coding Note:  This category should nev er be used in primary tabulation. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify the 
presence of dementia in diseases classified elsewhere.  
 576  ICD-11 MMS  
   6D81   Dementia due to cerebrovascular disease  
Dementia due t o brain parenchyma injury resulting from cerebrovascular disease 
(ischemic or haemorrhagic). The onset of the cognitive deficits is temporally related 
to one or more vascular events. Cognitive decline is typically most prominent in 
speed of information pro cessing, complex attention, and frontal -executive 
functioning. There is evidence of the presence of cerebrovascular disease 
considered to be sufficient to account for the neurocognitive deficits from history, 
physical examination and neuroimaging.  
Coding N ote: This category should never be used in primary tabulation. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify the 
presence of dementia in diseases classified elsewhere.  
Exclusions:  Alzheimer disease demen tia, mixed type, with cerebrovascular 
disease (6D80.2)  
 
  6D82   Dementia due to Lewy body disease  
Dementia preceding or occurring within one year after the onset of motor 
parkinsonian signs in the setting of Lewy body disease. Characterized by presence 
of Lewy bodies, which are intraneuronal inclusions containing α -synuclein and 
ubiquitin in the brain stem, limbic area, forebrain, and neocortex. Onset is insidious 
with attentional and executive functioning deficits often present. These cognitive 
deficits are often accompanied by visual hallucinations and symptoms of REM sleep 
behaviour disorder. Halluci nations in other sensory modalities, depressive 
symptoms, and delusions may also be present. The symptom presentation usually 
varies significantly over the course of days necessitating longitudinal assessment 
and differentiation from delirium. Spontaneous onset of Parkinsonism within 
approximately 1 year of the onset of cognitive symptoms is common.  
Coding Note:  This category should never be used in primary tabulation. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to  identify the 
presence of dementia in diseases classified elsewhere.  
When dementia is due to multiple aetiologies, code all that apply.  
 
  6D83   Frontotemporal dementia  
Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is a group of primary neurodegenerative disorders 
primar ily affecting the frontal and temporal lobes. Onset is typically insidious with a 
gradual and worsening course. Several syndromic variants (some with an identified 
genetic basis or familiality) are described that include presentations with 
predominantly ma rked personality and behavioral changes (such as executive 
dysfunction, apathy, deterioration of social cognition, repetitive behaviours, and 
dietary changes), predominantly language deficits (that include semantic, 
agrammatic/nonfluent, and logopenic form s), predominantly movement -related 
deficits (progressive supranuclear palsy, corticobasal degeneration, multiple 
systems atrophy, or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis), or a combination of these 
deficits. Memory function often remains relatively intact, partic ularly during the early 
stages of the disorder.  
Coding Note:  This category should never be used in primary tabulation. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify the 
presence of dementia in diseases c lassified elsewhere.  
When dementia is due to multiple aetiologies, code all that apply.  
 ICD-11 MMS  577 
   6D84   Dementia due to psychoactive substances including medications  
Dementia due to psychoactive substances including medications includes forms of 
dementia that ar e judged to be a direct consequence of substance use and that 
persist beyond the usual duration of action or withdrawal syndrome associated with 
the substance. The amount and duration of substance use must be sufficient to 
produce the cognitive impairment.  The cognitive impairment is not better accounted 
for by a disorder that is not induced by substances such as a dementia due to 
another medical condition.  
Coding Note:  This category should never be used in primary tabulation. The codes are provided 
for use  as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify the 
presence of dementia in diseases classified elsewhere.  
When dementia is due to multiple aetiologies, code all that apply.  
Exclusions:  Dementia due to exposure to heavy metals and othe r toxins 
(6D85.2)  
 
6D84.0  Dementia due to use of alcohol  
Dementia due to use of alcohol is characterised by the development of persistent 
cognitive impairments (e.g., memory problems, language impairment, and an 
inability to perform complex motor tasks) th at meet the definitional requirements of 
Dementia that are judged to be a direct consequence of alcohol use and that persist 
beyond the usual duration of alcohol intoxication or acute withdrawal. The intensity 
and duration of alcohol use must have been suf ficient to produce the cognitive 
impairment. The cognitive impairment is not better accounted for by a disorder or 
disease that is not induced by alcohol such as a dementia due to another disorder 
or disease classified elsewhere.  
Coding Note:  This category  should never be used in primary tabulation. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify the 
presence of dementia in diseases classified elsewhere.  
When dementia is due to multiple aetiologies, code al l that apply.  
This category should not be used to describe cognitive changes due to thiamine 
deficiency associated with chronic alcohol use.  
Inclusions:  Alcohol -induced dementia  
Exclusions:  Wernicke -Korsakoff Syndrome (5B5A.1)  
Korsakoff syndrome (5B5A.11)  
 578  ICD-11 MMS  
 6D84.1  Dementia due to use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics  
Dementia due to use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics is characterised by the 
development of persistent cognitive impairments (e.g., memory problems, language 
impairment, and an inability to perform complex motor tasks) that meet the 
definitional requ irements of Dementia that are judged to be a direct consequence of 
sedative, hypnotic, or anxiolytic use and that persist beyond the usual duration of 
action or withdrawal syndrome associated with the substance. The amount and 
duration of sedative, hypnoti c, or anxiolytic use must be sufficient to produce the 
cognitive impairment. The cognitive impairment is not better accounted for by a 
disorder that is not induced by sedatives, hypnotics, or anxiolytics such as a 
dementia due to another medical condition.  
Coding Note:  This category should never be used in primary tabulation. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify the 
presence of dementia in diseases classified elsewhere.  
When dementia is due to multiple aetiologies, code all that apply.  
Inclusions:  Late-onset psychoactive substance -induced psychotic disorder  
 
6D84.2  Dementia due to use of volatile inhalants  
Dementia due to use of volatile inhalants is characterised by the development of 
persistent cognitive impairments (e.g., memory problems, language impairment, 
and an inability to perform complex motor tasks) that meet the definitional 
requirements of Dementia that are judged to be a direct consequence of inhalant 
use or exposure and that persist beyond the usual duration of action or withdrawal 
syndrome associated with the substance. The amount and duration of inhalant use 
or exposure must be sufficient to be capable of producing the cognitive impairment. 
The cognitive im pairment is not better accounted for by a disorder that is not 
induced by volatile inhalants such as a dementia due to another medical condition.  
Coding Note:  This category should never be used in primary tabulation. The codes are provided 
for use as suppl ementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify the 
presence of dementia in diseases classified elsewhere.  
When dementia is due to multiple aetiologies, code all that apply.  
 
6D84.Y  Dementia due to other specified psychoactive substance  
Coding Note:  This category should never be used in primary tabulation. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify the 
presence of dementia in diseases classified elsewhere.  
When dementia is due to multiple a etiologies, code all that apply.  
 
  6D85   Dementia due to diseases classified elsewhere  
Coding Note:  This category should never be used in primary tabulation. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identi fy the 
presence of dementia in diseases classified elsewhere.  
When dementia is due to multiple aetiologies, code all that apply.  
 ICD-11 MMS  579 
 6D85.0  Dementia due to Parkinson disease  
Dementia due to Parkinson disease develops among individuals with idiopathic 
Parkinso n disease and is characterized by impairment in attention, memory, 
executive and visuo -spatial functions. Mental and behavioral symptoms such as 
changes in affect, apathy and hallucinations may also be present. Onset is insidious 
and the course is one of g radual worsening of symptoms.  
Coding Note:  This category should never be used in primary tabulation. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify the 
presence of dementia in diseases classified elsewher e. 
When dementia is due to multiple aetiologies, code all that apply.  
 
6D85.1  Dementia due to Huntington disease  
Dementia due to Huntington disease occurs as part of a widespread degeneration 
of the brain due to a trinucleotide repeat expansion in the HTT gene, which is 
transmitted through autosomal dominance. Onset of symptoms is insidious typically 
in the third and fourth decade of life with gradual and slow progression. Initial 
symptoms typically include impairments in executive functions with relative s paring 
of memory, prior to the onset of motor deficits (bradykinesia and chorea) 
characteristic of Huntington disease.  
Coding Note:  This category should never be used in primary tabulation. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional code s when it is desired to identify the 
presence of dementia in diseases classified elsewhere.  
When dementia is due to multiple aetiologies, code all that apply.  
Inclusions:  Dementia in Huntington chorea  
 
6D85.2  Dementia due to exposure to heavy metals and ot her toxins  
Dementia due to exposure to heavy metals and other toxins caused by toxic 
exposure to specific heavy metals such as aluminium from dialysis water, lead, 
mercury or manganese. The characteristic cognitive impairments in Dementia due 
to exposure to heavy met als and other toxins depend on the specific heavy metal or 
toxin that the individual has been exposed to but can affect any cognitive domain. 
Onset of symptoms is related to exposure and progression can be rapid especially 
with acute exposure. In many case s, symptoms are reversible when exposure is 
identified and ceases. Investigations such as brain imaging or neurophysiological 
testing may be abnormal. Lead poisoning is associated with abnormalities on brain 
imaging including widespread calcification and i ncreased signal on MRI T2 -
weighted images of periventricular white matter, basal ganglia hypothalamus and 
pons. Dementia due to aluminium toxicity may demonstrate characteristic 
paroxysmal high -voltage delta EEG changes. Examination may make evident other 
features such as peripheral neuropathy in the case of lead, arsenic, or mercury.  
Coding Note:  This category should never be used in primary tabulation. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify the 
presence of dementia in diseases classified elsewhere.  
When dementia is due to multiple aetiologies, code all that apply.  
Exclusions:  Dementia due to psychoactive substances including 
medications (6D84)  
 580  ICD-11 MMS  
 6D85.3  Dementia due to human immunodeficiency virus  
Dementia due to human immunodeficiency virus develops during the course of 
confirmed HIV disease, in the absence of a concurrent illness or condition other 
than HIV infection that could explain the clinical features. Although a variety of 
patterns of cognit ive deficit are possible depending on where the HIV pathogenic 
processes have occurred, typically deficits follow a subcortical pattern with 
impairments in executive function, processing speed, attention, and learning new 
information. The course of Dementi a due to human immunodeficiency virus varies 
including resolution of symptoms, gradual decline in functioning, improvement, or 
fluctuation in symptoms. Rapid decline in cognitive functioning is rare with the 
advent of antiretroviral medications.  
Coding Not e: This category should never be used in primary tabulation. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify the 
presence of dementia in diseases classified elsewhere.  
When dementia is due to multiple aeti ologies, code all that apply.  
 
6D85.4  Dementia due to multiple sclerosis  
Dementia due to multiple sclerosis is a neurodegenerative disease due to the 
cerebral effects of multiple sclerosis, a demyelinating disease. Onset of symptoms 
is insidious and not secondary to the functional impairment attributable to the 
primary disease (i.e., multiple sclerosis). Cognitive impairments vary according to 
the location of demyelination but typically include deficits in processing speed, 
memory, attention, and aspects of executive functioning.  
Coding Note:  This category should never be used i n primary tabulation. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify the 
presence of dementia in diseases classified elsewhere.  
When dementia is due to multiple aetiologies, code all that apply.  
 
6D85.5  Dementia due to prion disease  
Dementia due to prion disease is a primary neurodegenerative disease caused by a 
group of spongiform encephalopathies resulting from abnormal prion protein 
accumulation in the brain. These can be sporadic, genetic (caused by mu tations in 
the prion -protein gene), or transmissible (acquired from an infected individual). 
Onset is insidious and there is a rapid progression of symptoms and impairment 
characterised by cognitive deficits, ataxia, and motor symptoms (myoclonus, 
chorea, or dystonia). Diagnosis is typically made on the basis of brain imaging 
studies, presence of characteristic proteins in spinal fluid, EEG, or genetic testing.  
Coding Note:  This category should never be used in primary tabulation. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify the 
presence of dementia in diseases classified elsewhere.  
When dementia is due to multiple aetiologies, code all that apply.  
 ICD-11 MMS  581 
 6D85.6  Dementia due to normal pressure hydrocephalus  
Dem entia due to normal pressure hydrocephalus results from excess accumulation 
of cerebrospinal fluid in the brain as a result of idiopathic, non -obstructive causes 
but can also be secondary to haemorrhage, infection or inflammation. Progression 
is gradual bu t intervention (e.g., shunt) may result in improvement of symptoms, 
especially if administered earlier in the course of the condition. Typically, cognitive 
impairments include reduced processing speed and deficits in executive functioning 
and attention. Th ese symptoms are also typically accompanied by gait 
abnormalities and urinary incontinence. Brain imaging to reveal ventricular volume 
and characterize brain displacement is often necessary to confirm the diagnosis.  
Coding Note:  This category should never be used in primary tabulation. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify the 
presence of dementia in diseases classified elsewhere.  
When dementia is due to multiple aetiologies, code all that apply.  
 
6D85.7  Dementia due to injury to the head  
Dementia due to injury to the head is caused by damage inflicted on the tissues of 
the brain as the direct or indirect result of an external force. Trauma to the brain is 
known to have resulted in loss of consciou sness, amnesia, disorientation and 
confusion, or neurological signs. The symptoms characteristic of Dementia due to 
injury to the head must arise immediately following the trauma or after the individual 
gains consciousness and must persist beyond the acute  post-injury period. 
Cognitive deficits vary depending on the specific brain areas affected and the 
severity of the injury but can include impairments in attention, memory, executive 
functioning, personality, processing speed, social cognition, and languag e abilities.  
Coding Note:  This category should never be used in primary tabulation. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify the 
presence of dementia in diseases classified elsewhere.  
When dementia is due to multiple aetiologies, code all that apply.  
 
6D85.8  Dementia due to pellagra  
Dementia due to pellagra is caused by persistent lack of vitamin B3 (niacin) or 
tryptophan either in the diet or due to poor absorption in the gastrointesti nal tract 
due to disease (e.g., Crohn disease) or due to the effects of some medications 
(e.g., isoniazid). Core signs of pellagra include dermatological changes (sensitivity 
to sunlight, lesions, alopecia, and oedema) and diarrhoea. With prolonged 
nutriti onal deficiency cognitive symptoms that include aggressivity, motor 
disturbances (ataxia and restlessness), confusion, and weakness are observed. 
Treatment with nutritional supplementation (e.g., niacin) typically results in reversal 
of symptoms.  
Coding No te: Code also the causing condition  
 582  ICD-11 MMS  
 6D85.9  Dementia due to Down syndrome  
Dementia due to Down syndrome is a neurodegenerative disorder related to the 
impact of abnormal increased production and accumulation of amyloid precursor 
protein (APP) leading to fo rmation of beta -amyloid plaques and tau tangles. APP 
gene expression is increased due to its location on chromosome 21, which is 
abnormally triplicated in Down syndrome. Cognitive deficits and neuropathological 
features are similar to those observed in Alz heimer disease. Onset is typically after 
the fourth decade of life with a gradual decline in functioning, and may impact 50% 
or more of individuals with Down syndrome.  
Coding Note:  This category should never be used in primary tabulation. The codes are pro vided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify the 
presence of dementia in diseases classified elsewhere.  
When dementia is due to multiple aetiologies, code all that apply.  
 
6D85.Y  Dementia due to other specified diseases  classified elsewhere  
Coding Note:  This category should never be used in primary tabulation. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify the 
presence of dementia in diseases classified elsewhere.  
When dementia is due to multiple aetiologies, code all that apply.  
 
  6D86   Behavioural or psychological disturbances in dementia  
In addition to the cognitive disturbances characteristic of dementia, the current 
clinical picture includes clinically significant  behavioural or psychological 
disturbances.  
Coding Note:  These categories should never be used in primary tabulation. The codes are 
provided for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify 
the presence of behavioural or psycholo gical disturbance in dementia.  
Code all that apply.  
Exclusions:  Secondary mental or behavioural syndromes associated with 
disorders or diseases classified elsewhere  (6E60‑6E6Z)  
 
6D86.0  Psychotic symptoms in dementia  
In addition to the cognitive disturbances characteristic of dementia, the current 
clinical picture includes clinically significant delusions or hallucinations.  
Exclusions:  Schizophrenia or other primary psychotic disorders  
(6A20‑6A2Z)  
Secondary psychotic s yndrome (6E61)  
 
6D86.1  Mood symptoms in dementia  
In addition to the cognitive disturbances characteristic of dementia, the current 
clinical picture includes clinically significant mood symptoms such as depressed 
mood, elevated mood, or irritable mood.  
Exclusions:  Mood disorders  (6A60‑6A8Z)  
Secondary mood  syndrome (6E62)  
 ICD-11 MMS  583 
 6D86.2  Anxiety symptoms in dementia  
In addition to the cognitive disturbances characteristic of dementia, the current 
clinical picture includes clinically significant symptoms of anxiety or worry.  
Exclusions:  Anxiety or fear -related disor ders (6B00‑6B0Z)  
Secondary anxiety syndrome (6E63)  
 
6D86.3  Apathy in dementia  
In addition to the cognitive disturbances characteristic of dementia, the current 
clinical picture includes clinically significant indifference or lack of interest.  
Exclusions:  Mood disorders  (6A60‑6A8Z)  
Secondary mood syndrome (6E62)  
 
6D86.4  Agitation or aggression in dementia  
In addition to the cognitive disturbances characteristic of dementia, the current 
clinical picture includes: 1) clinically significant excessive psychomoto r activity 
accompanied by increased tension; or 2) hostile or violent behaviour.  
 
6D86.5  Disinhibition in dementia  
In addition to the cognitive disturbances characteristic of dementia, the current 
clinical picture includes clinically significant lack of re straint manifested in disregard 
for social conventions, impulsivity, and poor risk assessment.  
 
6D86.6  Wandering in dementia  
In addition to the cognitive disturbances characteristic of dementia, the current 
clinical picture includes clinically significant wandering that puts the person at risk of 
harm.  
 
6D86.Y  Other specified behavioural or psychological disturbances in dementia  
Coding Note:  These categories should never be used in primary tabulation. The codes are 
provided for use as supplementary or addit ional codes when it is desired to identify 
the presence of behavioural or psychological disturbance in dementia.  
Code all that apply.  
 
6D86.Z  Behavioural or psychological disturbances in dementia, unspecified  
Coding Note:  These categories should never be used in primary tabulation. The codes are 
provided for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify 
the presence of behavioural or psychological disturbance in dementia.  
Code all that apply.  
 
  6D8Y   Dementia, other specified cause  
Coding Note:  This category should only be used for primary tabulation, if the aetiology of the 
dementia is unknown. If the aetiology of the dementia is known code to the 
aetiology of the dementia for primary tabulation.  
When dementia is due to multiple aetiologies, co de all that apply.  
 584  ICD-11 MMS  
   6D8Z   Dementia, unknown or unspecified cause  
Coding Note:  This category should only be used for primary tabulation, if the aetiology of the 
dementia is unknown. If the aetiology of the dementia is known code to the 
aetiology of the d ementia for primary tabulation.  
When dementia is due to multiple aetiologies, code all that apply.  
 
  6E0Y   Other specified neurocognitive disorders  
 
  6E0Z   Neurocognitive disorders, unspecified  
 
Mental or behavioural disorders associated with pregnanc y, childbirth or the puerperium 
(6E20‑6E2Z)  
Syndromes associated with pregnancy or the puerperium (commencing within about 6 weeks after 
delivery) that involve significant mental and behavioural features. If the symptoms meet the diagnostic 
requirements fo r a specific mental disorder, that diagnosis should also be assigned.  
Coded Elsewhere:  Psychological disorder related to obstetric fistula (GC04.1Y)  
  6E20   Mental or behavioural disorders associated with pregnancy, childbirth 
or the puerperium, without p sychotic symptoms  
A syndrome associated with pregnancy or the puerperium (commencing within 
about 6 weeks after delivery) that involves significant mental and behavioural 
features, most commonly depressive symptoms. The syndrome does not include 
delusions,  hallucinations, or other psychotic symptoms. If the symptoms meet the 
diagnostic requirements for a specific mental disorder, that diagnosis should also be 
assigned. This designation should not be used to describe mild and transient 
depressive symptoms th at do not meet the diagnostic requirements for a depressive 
episode, which may occur soon after delivery (so -called postpartum blues).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
  6E21   Mental or behavioural disorders associated with pregnancy, childbi rth 
or the puerperium, with psychotic symptoms  
A syndrome associated with pregnancy or the puerperium (commencing within 
about 6 weeks after delivery) that involves significant mental and behavioural 
features, including delusions, hallucinations, or other psychotic symptoms. Mood 
symptoms (depressive and/or manic) are also typically present. If the symptoms 
meet the diagnostic requirements for a specific mental disorder, that diagnosis 
should also be assigned.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
  6E2Z   Mental or behavioural disorders associated with pregnancy, childbirth 
or the puerperium, unspecified  
 ICD-11 MMS  585 
   6E40   Psychological or behavioural factors affecting disorders or diseases 
classified elsewhere  
Psychological and behavioural factors affecting disorders or diseases classified 
elsewhere are those that may adversely affect the manifestation, treatment, or 
course  of a condition classified in another chapter of the ICD. These factors may 
adversely affect the manifestation, treatment, or course of the disorder or disease 
classified in another chapter by: interfering with the treatment of the disorder or 
disease by a ffecting treatment adherence or care seeking; constituting an additional 
health risk; or influencing the underlying pathophysiology to precipitate or 
exacerbate symptoms or otherwise necessitate medical attention. This diagnosis 
should be assigned only whe n the factors increase the risk of suffering, disability, or 
death and represent a focus of clinical attention, and should be assigned together 
with the diagnosis for the relevant other condition.  
Inclusions:  Psychological factors affecting physical condit ions 
Exclusions:  Mental or behavioural disorders associated with pregnancy, 
childbirth or the puerperium  (6E20‑6E2Z)  
 
6E40.0  Mental disorder affecting disorders or diseases classified elsewhere  
All diagnostic requirements for Psychological or behavioural f actors affecting 
disorders or diseases classified elsewhere are met. The individual is diagnosed with 
a mental, behavioural, or neurodevelopmental disorder that adversely affects the 
manifestation, treatment, or course of a disorder or disease classified i n another 
chapter (e.g., a woman with Bulimia Nervosa and Type 1 diabetes mellitus who 
skips insulin doses as a way to avoid weight gain that would otherwise be caused 
by her binge eating).  
 
6E40.1  Psychological symptoms affecting disorders or diseases cla ssified elsewhere  
All diagnostic requirements for Psychological or behavioural factors affecting 
disorders or diseases classified elsewhere are met. The individual exhibits 
psychological symptoms that do not meet the diagnostic requirements for a mental, 
behavioural, or neurodevelopmental disorder that adversely affect the 
manifestation, treatment, or course of a disorder or disease classified in another 
chapter (e.g., depressive symptoms interfering with rehabilitation following surgery).  
 
6E40.2  Personali ty traits or coping style affecting disorders or diseases classified 
elsewhere  
All diagnostic requirements for Psychological or behavioural factors affecting 
disorders or diseases classified elsewhere are met. The individual exhibits 
personality traits or coping styles that do not meet the diagnostic requirements for a 
mental, behavioural, or neurodevelopmental disorder that adversely affect the 
manifestation, treatment, or course of a disorder or disease classified in another 
chapter (e.g., pathological de nial of the need for surgery in a patient with cancer; 
hostile, pressured behaviour contributing to heart disease).  
 586  ICD-11 MMS  
 6E40.3  Maladaptive health behaviours affecting disorders or diseases classified 
elsewhere  
All diagnostic requirements for Psychological or behavioural factors affecting 
disorders or diseases classified elsewhere are met. The individual exhibits 
maladaptive health behaviours that adversely affect the manifestation, treatment, or 
course of a disorder or disease classified in another chapter (e. g., overeating, lack 
of exercise).  
 
6E40.4  Stress -related physiological response affecting disorders or diseases 
classified elsewhere  
All diagnostic requirements for Psychological or behavioural factors affecting 
disorders or diseases classified elsewhere are met. The individual exhibits stress -
related physiological responses that adversely affect the manifestation, treatment, 
or course of a disorder or disease classified in another chapter (e.g., stress -related 
exacerbation of ulcer, hypertension, arrhythmia, or tension headache).  
 
6E40.Y  Other specified psychological or behavioural factors affecting disorders or 
diseases classified else where  
 
6E40.Z  Psychological or behavioural factors affecting disorders or diseases 
classified elsewhere, unspecified  
 ICD-11 MMS  587 
 Secondary mental or behavioural syndromes associated with disorders or diseases 
classified elsewhere (6E60 ‑6E6Z)  
This grouping includes sy ndromes characterised by the presence of prominent psychological or 
behavioural symptoms judged to be direct pathophysiological consequences of a medical condition 
not classified under mental and behavioural disorders, based on evidence from the history, p hysical 
examination, or laboratory findings. The symptoms are not accounted for by delirium or by another 
mental and behavioural disorder, and are not a psychologically mediated response to a severe 
medical condition (e.g., adjustment disorder or anxiety s ymptoms in response to being diagnosed with 
a life -threatening illness). These categories should be used in addition to the diagnosis for the 
presumed underlying disorder or disease when the psychological and behavioural symptoms are 
sufficiently severe to  warrant specific clinical attention.  
Exclusions:  Acute pain (MG31)  
Bodily distress disorder (6C20)  
Chronic pain (MG30)  
Coded Elsewhere:  Delirium due to disease classified elsewhere (6D70.0)  
  6E60   Secondary neurodevelopmental syndrome  
A syndrome that involves significant neurodevelopmental features that do not fulfill 
the diagnostic requirements of any of the specific neurodevelopmental disorders 
that is judged to be a direct pathophysiological cons equence of a health condition 
not classified under mental and behavioural disorders (e.g., autistic -like features in 
Rett syndrome; aggression and self -mutilation in Lesch -Nyhan syndrome, 
abnormalities in language development in Williams syndrome), based o n evidence 
from the history, physical examination, or laboratory findings.  
This category should be used in addition to the diagnosis for the presumed 
underlying disorder or disease when the neurodevelopmental problems are 
sufficiently severe to warrant spe cific clinical attention.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
Exclusions:  Autism spectrum disorder (6A02)  
Disorders of intellectual development (6A00)  
Stereotyped movement disorder (6A06)  
 
6E60.0  Secondary speech or language syndrome  
A syndrome th at involves significant features related to speech or language 
development that do not fulfill the diagnostic requirements of any of the specific 
developmental speech or language disorders that is judged to be a direct 
pathophysiological consequence of a h ealth condition not classified under mental 
and behavioural disorders, based on evidence from the history, physical 
examination, or laboratory findings. Possible etiologies include a disease of the 
nervous system, sensory impairment, brain injury or infect ion. 
Coding Note:  This diagnosis should be assigned in addition to the diagnosis for the presumed 
underlying disorder or disease when the neurodevelopmental problems are 
sufficiently severe to warrant specific clinical attention.  
 
6E60.Y  Other specified se condary neurodevelopmental syndrome  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 588  ICD-11 MMS  
 6E60.Z  Secondary neurodevelopmental syndrome, unspecified  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
  6E61   Secondary psychotic syndrome  
A syndrome characterised by the presence of prominent hallucinations or delusions 
judged to be a direct pathophysiological consequence of a health condition not 
classified under mental and behavioural disorders, based on evidence from the 
history, physical examination, or laboratory find ings. The symptoms are not 
accounted for by delirium or by another mental and behavioural disorder, and are 
not a psychologically mediated response to a severe medical condition (e.g., an 
acute stress reaction in response to a life -threatening diagnosis). This category 
should be used in addition to the diagnosis for the presumed underlying disorder or 
disease when the psychotic symptoms are sufficiently severe to warrant specific 
clinical attention.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
Exclusions:  Acute and transient psychotic disorder (6A23)  
Delirium (6D70)  
Mood disorders  (6A60‑6A8Z)  
 
6E61.0  Secondary psychotic syndrome, with hallucinations  
A syndrome characterised by the presence of prominent hallucinations that is 
judged to be a direct pathophysiological consequence of a health condition not 
classified under mental and behavioural disorders, based on evidence from the 
history, physical exam ination, or laboratory findings. Delusions are not a prominent 
aspect of the clinical presentation. The symptoms are not accounted for by delirium 
or by another mental and behavioural disorder, and are not a psychologically 
mediated response to a severe me dical condition (e.g., an acute stress reaction in 
response to a life -threatening diagnosis). This category should be used in addition 
to the diagnosis for the presumed underlying disorder or disease when the 
psychotic symptoms are sufficiently severe to w arrant specific clinical attention.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
Exclusions:  Delirium (6D70)  
Mood disorders  (6A60‑6A8Z)  
 ICD-11 MMS  589 
 6E61.1  Secondary psychotic syndrome, with delusions  
A syndrome characterised by the presence of prominent delusions tha t is judged to 
be a direct pathophysiological consequence of a health condition not classified 
under mental and behavioural disorders, based on evidence from the history, 
physical examination, or laboratory findings. Hallucinations are not a prominent 
aspe ct of the clinical presentation. The symptoms are not accounted for by delirium 
or by another mental and behavioural disorder, and are not a psychologically 
mediated response to a severe medical condition (e.g., an acute stress reaction in 
response to a li fe-threatening diagnosis). This category should be used in addition 
to the diagnosis for the presumed underlying disorder or disease when the 
psychotic symptoms are sufficiently severe to warrant specific clinical attention.  
Coding Note:  Code also the caus ing condition  
Exclusions:  Delirium (6D70)  
Mood disorders  (6A60‑6A8Z)  
 
6E61.2  Secondary psychotic syndrome, with hallucinations and delusions  
A syndrome characterised by the presence of both prominent hallucinations and 
prominent delusions that is judged to  be a direct pathophysiological consequence of 
a health condition not classified under mental and behavioural disorders, based on 
evidence from the history, physical examination, or laboratory findings. The 
symptoms are not accounted for by delirium or by another mental and behavioural 
disorder, and are not a psychologically mediated response to a severe medical 
condition (e.g., an acute stress reaction in response to a life -threatening diagnosis). 
This category should be used in addition to the diagnosis f or the presumed 
underlying disorder or disease when the psychotic symptoms are sufficiently severe 
to warrant specific clinical attention.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
Exclusions:  Delirium (6D70)  
Mood disorders  (6A60‑6A8Z)  
 
6E61.3  Secondary  psychotic syndrome, with unspecified symptoms  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
  6E62   Secondary mood syndrome  
A syndrome characterised by the presence of prominent mood symptoms (i.e., 
depression, elevated mood, irritability) judged to be a  direct pathophysiological 
consequence of a health condition not classified under mental and behavioural 
disorders, based on evidence from the history, physical examination, or laboratory 
findings. The symptoms are not accounted for by delirium or by anoth er mental and 
behavioural disorder, and are not a psychologically mediated response to a severe 
medical condition (e.g., depressive symptoms in response to a life -threatening 
diagnosis). This category should be used in addition to the diagnosis for the 
presumed underlying disorder or disease when the mood symptoms are sufficiently 
severe to warrant specific clinical attention.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
Exclusions:  Adjustment disorder (6B43)  
Delirium (6D70)  
 590  ICD-11 MMS  
 6E62.0  Secondary mood syndrome, with depressive symptoms  
A syndrome characterised by the presence of prominent depressive symptoms such 
as persistently depressed mood, loss of interest in previously enjoyable activities, or 
signs such as tearful and downtrodden a ppearance that is judged to be a direct 
pathophysiological consequence of a health condition not classified under mental 
and behavioural disorders based on evidence from the history, physical 
examination, or laboratory findings. The symptoms are not accoun ted for by 
delirium or by another mental and behavioural disorder, and are not a 
psychologically mediated response to a severe medical condition (e.g., depressive 
symptoms in response to a life -threatening diagnosis). This category should be 
used in additi on to the diagnosis for the presumed underlying disorder or disease 
when the mood symptoms are sufficiently severe to warrant specific clinical 
attention.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
Exclusions:  Adjustment disorder (6B43)  
Delirium (6D70)  
 
6E62.1  Secondary mood syndrome, with manic symptoms  
A syndrome characterised by the presence of prominent manic symptoms such as 
elevated, euphoric, irritable, or expansive mood states, rapid changes among 
different mood states (i.e., mood lability), or in creased energy or activity that is 
judged to be a direct pathophysiological consequence of a health condition not 
classified under mental and behavioural disorders based on evidence from the 
history, physical examination, or laboratory findings.  
Coding Not e: Code also the causing condition  
Inclusions:  mood syndrome due to disorders or diseases not classified 
under Mental and behavioural disorders, with manic 
symptoms  
Exclusions:  Adjustment disorder (6B43)  
Delirium (6D70)  
 ICD-11 MMS  591 
 6E62.2  Secondary mood syndrome, with mixed symptoms  
A syndrome characterised by th e presence of both manic and depressive 
symptoms, either occurring together or alternating from day to day or over the 
course of a day that is judged to be a direct pathophysiological consequence of a 
health condition not classified under mental and behavi oural disorders based on 
evidence from the history, physical examination, or laboratory findings. Manic 
symptoms may include elevated, euphoric, irritable, or expansive mood states, rapid 
changes among different mood states (i.e., mood lability), or increa sed energy or 
activity. Depressive symptoms may include persistently depressed mood, loss of 
interest in previously enjoyable activities, or signs such as tearful or downtrodden 
appearance. The symptoms are not accounted for by delirium or by another menta l 
and behavioural disorder, and are not a psychologically mediated response to a 
severe medical condition (e.g., depressive symptoms in response to a life -
threatening diagnosis). This category should be used in addition to the diagnosis for 
the presumed un derlying disorder or disease when the mood symptoms are 
sufficiently severe to warrant specific clinical attention.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
Exclusions:  Adjustment disorder (6B43)  
Delirium (6D70)  
 
6E62.3  Secondary mood syndrome, with un specified symptoms  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
Exclusions:  Adjustment disorder (6B43)  
Delirium (6D70)  
 
  6E63   Secondary anxiety syndrome  
A syndrome characterised by the presence of prominent anxiety symptoms judged 
to be a direct pathoph ysiological consequence of a health condition not classified 
under mental and behavioural disorders, based on evidence from the history, 
physical examination, or laboratory findings. The symptoms are not accounted for 
by delirium or by another mental and b ehavioural disorder, and are not a 
psychologically mediated response to a severe medical condition (e.g., anxiety 
symptoms or panic attacks in response to a life -threatening diagnosis). This 
category should be used in addition to the diagnosis for the pres umed underlying 
disorder or disease when the anxiety symptoms are sufficiently severe to warrant 
specific clinical attention.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
Exclusions:  Adjustment disorder (6B43)  
Delirium (6D70)  
 592  ICD-11 MMS  
   6E64   Secondary obsessive -compulsive or related syndrome  
A syndrome characterised by the presence of prominent obsessions, compulsions, 
hoarding, skin picking, hair pulling, other body -focused repetitive behaviours, or 
other symptoms characteristic of obsessive -compulsive and related disorder that is 
judged to be the direct pathophysiological consequence of a disorder or disease not 
classified under Mental and behavioural disorders, based on evidence from the 
history, physical examination, or laboratory findings.  The symptoms are not 
accounted for by Delirium or by another Mental and behavioural disorder, and are 
not a psychologically mediated response to a severe medical condition (e.g., 
repetitive ruminations in response to a life -threatening diagnosis). This ca tegory 
should be used in addition to the diagnosis for the presumed underlying disorder or 
disease when the obsessive -compulsive or related symptoms are sufficiently severe 
to warrant specific clinical attention.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing conditio n 
Exclusions:  Delirium (6D70)  
Obsessive -compulsive or related disorder induced by other 
specified psychoactive substance (6C4E.72)  
Tic disorders (8A05)  
 
  6E65   Secondary dissociative syndrome  
A syndrome characterised by the presence of prominent dissocia tive symptoms 
(e.g., depersonalization, derealization) that is judged to be the direct 
pathophysiological consequence of a health condition not classified under mental 
and behavioural disorders, based on evidence from the history, physical 
examination, or laboratory findings. The symptoms are not accounted for by 
delirium or by another mental and behavioural disorder, and are not a 
psychologically mediated response to a severe medical condition (e.g., as part of an 
acute stress reaction in response to a lif e-threatening diagnosis). This category 
should be used in addition to the diagnosis for the presumed underlying disorder or 
disease when the dissociative symptoms are sufficiently severe to warrant specific 
clinical attention.  
Coding Note:  Code also the ca using condition  
Exclusions:  Delirium (6D70)  
Acute stress reaction (QE84)  
 