6B20.0  Obsessive -compulsive disorder with fair to good insight  

  
Obsessive -compulsive and related disorders is a group of disorders characterised by repetitive 
thoughts and behaviours that are believed to share similari ties in aetiology and key diagnostic 
validators. Cognitive phenomena such as obsessions, intrusive thoughts and preoccupations are 
central to a subset of these conditions (i.e., obsessive -compulsive disorder, body dysmorphic 
disorder, hypochondriasis, and olfactory reference disorder) and are accompanied by related 
repetitive behaviours. Hoarding Disorder is not associated with intrusive unwanted thoughts but rather 
is characterised by a compulsive need to accumulate possessions and distress related to disc arding 
them. Also included in the grouping are body -focused repetitive behaviour disorders, which are 
primarily characterised by recurrent and habitual actions directed at the integument (e.g., hair -pulling, 
skin-picking) and lack a prominent cognitive asp ect. The symptoms result in significant distress or 
significant impairment in personal, family, social, educational, occupational, or other important areas 
of functioning.  
Coded Elsewhere:  Substance -induced obsessive -compulsive or related disorders  
Secondary obsessive -compulsive or related syndrome (6E64)  
Tourette syndrome (8A05.00)  
  6B20   Obsessive -compulsive disorder  
Obsessive -Compulsive Disorder is characterised by the presence of persistent 
obsessions or compulsions, or most commonly both. Obse ssions are repetitive and 
persistent thoughts, images, or impulses/urges that are intrusive, unwanted, and are 
commonly associated with anxiety. The individual attempts to ignore or suppress 
obsessions or to neutralize them by performing compulsions. Compu lsions are 
repetitive behaviours including repetitive mental acts that the individual feels driven 
to perform in response to an obsession, according to rigid rules, or to achieve a 
sense of ‘completeness’. In order for obsessive -compulsive disorder to be 
diagnosed, obsessions and compulsions must be time consuming (e.g. taking more 
than an hour per day) or result in significant distress or significant impairment in 
personal, family, social, educational, occupational or other important areas of 
functioning.  
Inclusions:  anankastic neurosis  
obsessive -compulsive neurosis  
Exclusions:  obsessive compulsive behaviour (MB23.4)  
 
