  
Paraphilic disorders are characterised by persistent and intense patterns of atypical sexual arousal, 
manifested by sexual thoughts, fantasies, urges, or behaviours, the focus of which involves others 
whose age or status renders them unwilling or unable to  consent and on which the person has acted 
or by which he or she is markedly distressed. Paraphilic disorders may include arousal patterns 
involving solitary behaviours or consenting individuals only when these are associated with marked 
distress that is n ot simply a result of rejection or feared rejection of the arousal pattern by others or 
with significant risk of injury or death.  
Inclusions:  paraphilias  
  6D30   Exhibitionistic disorder  
Exhibitionistic disorder is characterised by a sustained, focused an d intense pattern 
of sexual arousal —as manifested by persistent sexual thoughts, fantasies, urges, or 
behaviours —that involves exposing one’s genitals to an unsuspecting individual in 
public places, usually without inviting or intending closer contact. In addition, in 
order for Exhibitionistic Disorder to be diagnosed, the individual must have acted on 
these thoughts, fantasies or urges or be markedly distressed by them. 
Exhibitionistic Disorder specifically excludes consensual exhibitionistic behaviours 
that occur with the consent of the person or persons involved as well as socially 
sanctioned forms of exhibitionism.  
 ICD-11 MMS  567 
   6D31   Voyeuristic disorder  
Voyeuristic disorder is characterised by a sustained, focused and intense pattern of 
sexual arousal —as manifes ted by persistent sexual thoughts, fantasies, urges, or 
behaviours —that involves observing an unsuspecting individual who is naked, in the 
process of disrobing, or engaging in sexual activity. In addition, in order for 
Voyeuristic Disorder to be diagnosed,  the individual must have acted on these 
thoughts, fantasies or urges or be markedly distressed by them. Voyeuristic 
Disorder specifically excludes consensual voyeuristic behaviours that occur with the 
consent of the person or persons being observed.  
 
  6D32   Pedophilic disorder  
Pedophilic disorder is characterised by a sustained, focused, and intense pattern of 
sexual arousal —as manifested by persistent sexual thoughts, fantasies, urges, or 
behaviours —involving pre -pubertal children. In addition, in order  for Pedophilic 
Disorder to be diagnosed, the individual must have acted on these thoughts, 
fantasies or urges or be markedly distressed by them. This diagnosis does not 
apply to sexual behaviours among pre - or post -pubertal children with peers who are 
close in age.  
 
  6D33   Coercive sexual sadism disorder  
Coercive sexual sadism disorder is characterised by a sustained, focused and 
intense pattern of sexual arousal —as manifested by persistent sexual thoughts, 
fantasies, urges or behaviours —that involves th e infliction of physical or 
psychological suffering on a non -consenting person. In addition, in order for 
Coercive Sexual Sadism Disorder to be diagnosed, the individual must have acted 
on these thoughts, fantasies or urges or be markedly distressed by the m. Coercive 
Sexual Sadism Disorder specifically excludes consensual sexual sadism and 
masochism.  
 
  6D34   Frotteuristic disorder  
Frotteuristic disorder is characterised by a sustained, focused and intense pattern of 
sexual arousal —as manifested by persist ent sexual thoughts, fantasies, urges, or 
behaviours —that involves touching or rubbing against a non -consenting person in 
crowded public places. In addition, in order for Frotteuristic Disorder to be 
diagnosed, the individual must have acted on these thoug hts, fantasies or urges or 
be markedly distressed by them. Frotteuristic Disorder specifically excludes 
consensual touching or rubbing that occurs with the consent of the person or 
persons involved.  
 
  6D35   Other paraphilic disorder involving non -consent ing individuals  
Other paraphilic disorder involving non -consenting individuals is characterised by a 
persistent and intense pattern of atypical sexual arousal — manifested by sexual 
thoughts, fantasies, urges, or behaviours — in which the focus of the arou sal 
pattern involves others who are unwilling or unable to consent but that is not 
specifically described in any of the other named Paraphilic Disorders categories 
(e.g., arousal patterns involving corpses or animals). The individual must have 
acted on the se thoughts, fantasies or urges or be markedly distressed by them. The 
disorder specifically excludes sexual behaviours that occur with the consent of the 
person or persons involved, provided that they are considered able to provide such 
consent.  
 568  ICD-11 MMS  
   6D36   Paraphilic disorder involving solitary behaviour or consenting 
individuals  
Paraphilic disorder involving solitary behaviour or consenting individuals is 
characterised by a persistent and intense pattern of atypical sexual arousal — 
manifested by sexual th oughts, fantasies, urges, or behaviours — that involves 
consenting adults or solitary behaviours. One of the following two elements must be 
present: 1) the person is markedly distressed by the nature of the arousal pattern 
and the distress is not simply a consequence of rejection or feared rejection of the 
arousal pattern by others; or 2) the nature of the paraphilic behaviour involves 
significant risk of injury or death either to the individual or to the partner (e.g., 
asphyxophilia).  
 
  6D3Z   Paraphilic disorders, unspecified  
 
