6D70.0  Delirium due to disease classified elsewhere  


Malingering (QC30)  
 ICD-11 MMS  569 
   6D51   Factitious disorder imposed on another  
Factitious disorder imposed on another is characterised by feigning, falsifying, or 
inducing medical, psychological, or behavioural signs and symptoms or injury in 
another person, most commonly a child dependent, associated with identified 
deception. If a pre-existing disorder or disease is present in the other person, the 
individual intentionally aggravates existing symptoms or falsifies or induces 
additional symptoms. The individual seeks treatment for the other person or 
otherwise presents him or her as ill, injured, or impaired based on the feigned, 
falsified, or induced signs, symptoms, or injuries. The deceptive behaviour is not 
solely motivated by obvious external rewards or incentives (e.g., obtaining disability 
payments or avoiding criminal prosecut ion for child or elder abuse).  
Coding Note:  The diagnosis of Factitious Disorder Imposed on Another is assigned to the 
individual who is feigning, falsifying or inducing the symptoms in another person, not 
to the person who is presented as having the sympt oms. Occasionally the individual 
induces or falsifies symptoms in a pet rather than in another person.  
Exclusions:  Malingering (QC30)  
 
  6D5Z   Factitious disorders, unspecified  
 
Neurocognitive disorders (6D70 ‑6E0Z)  
Neurocognitive disorders are characteris ed by primary clinical deficits in cognitive functioning that are 
acquired rather than developmental. That is, neurocognitive disorders do not include disorders 
characterised by deficits in cognitive function that are present from birth or that typically a rise during 
the developmental period, which are classified in the grouping neurodevelopmental disorders. Rather, 
neurocognitive disorders represent a decline from a previously attained level of functioning. Although 
cognitive deficits are present in many m ental disorders (e.g., schizophrenia, bipolar disorders), only 
disorders whose core features are cognitive are included in the neurocognitive disorders grouping. In 
cases where the underlying pathology and aetiology for neurocognitive disorders can be dete rmined, 
the identified etiology should be classified separately.  
Exclusions:  Neurodevelopmental disorders  (6A00‑6A0Z)  
Coded Elsewhere:  Secondary neurocognitive syndrome (6E67)  
  6D70   Delirium  
Delirium is characterized by a disturbance of attention, orien tation, and awareness 
that develops within a short period of time, typically presenting as significant 
confusion or global neurocognitive impairment, with transient symptoms that may 
fluctuate depending on the underlying causal condition or etiology. Delir ium often 
includes disturbance of behaviour and emotion, and may include impairment in 
multiple cognitive domains. A disturbance of the sleep -wake cycle, including 
reduced arousal of acute onset or total sleep loss with reversal of the sleep -wake 
cycle, ma y also be present. Delirium may be caused by the direct physiological 
effects of a medical condition not classified under mental, behavioural or 
neurodevelopmental disorders, by the direct physiological effects of a substance or 
medication, including withd rawal, or by multiple or unknown etiological factors.  
 570  ICD-11 MMS  
 