6D72.0  Amnestic disorder due to diseases classified elsewhere  


All definitional requirements for delirium are met. There is evidence from history, 
physical examination, or laboratory findings that the delirium is attributable to 
multiple etiologic al factors, which may include disorders or diseases not classified 
under mental and behavioural disorders, substance intoxication or withdrawal, or a 
medication.  
Coding Note:  Identified etiologies should be classified separately.  
 
6D70.Y  Delirium, other specified cause  
 
6D70.Z  Delirium, unspecified or unknown cause  
 ICD-11 MMS  571 
   6D71   Mild neurocognitive disorder  
Mild neurocognitive disorder is characterized by mild impairment in one or more 
cognitive domains relative to that expected given the indi vidual’s age and general 
premorbid level of cognitive functioning, which represents a decline from the 
individual’s previous level of functioning. Diagnosis is based on report from the 
patient, informant, or clinical observation, and is accompanied by obje ctive evidence 
of impairment by quantified clinical assessment or standardized cognitive testing. 
Cognitive impairment is not severe enough to significantly interfere with an 
individual’s ability to perform activities related to personal, family, social, 
educational, and/or occupational functioning or other important functional areas. 
Cognitive impairment is not attributable to normal aging and may be static, 
progressive, or may resolve or improve depending on underlying cause or 
treatment. Cognitive impair ment may be attributable to an underlying acquired 
disease of the nervous system, a trauma, an infection or other disease process 
affecting the brain, use of specific substances or medications, nutritional deficiency 
or exposure to toxins, or the etiology may be undetermined. The impairment is not 
due to current substance intoxication or withdrawal.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
  6D72   Amnestic disorder  
Amnestic disorder is characterised by prominent memory impairment relative to 
expectations for age and general premorbid level of cognitive functioning, which 
represents a decline from the individual’s previous level of functioning, in the 
absence of other  significant cognitive impairment. It is manifested by a deficit in 
acquiring, learning, and/or retaining new information, and may include the inability 
to recall previously learned information, without disturbance of consciousness, 
altered mental status, or delirium. Recent memory is typically more disturbed than 
remote memory, and the ability to immediately recall a limited amount of information 
is usually relatively preserved. The memory impairment is severe enough to result 
in significant impairment in personal, family, social, educational, occupational, or 
other important areas of functioning. It is presumed to be attributable to an 
underlying acquired disease of the nervous system, a trauma, an infection or other 
disease process affecting the brain, to  use of specific substances or medications, 
nutritional deficiency or exposure to toxins, or the etiology may be undetermined. 
The impairment is not due to current substance intoxication or withdrawal.  
Exclusions:  Delirium (6D70)  
Dementia  (6D80‑6D8Z)  
Mild neurocognitive disorder (6D71)  
 572  ICD-11 MMS  
 