6C51.0  Gaming disorder, predominantly online  


Gambling disorder, predominantly online is characterised by a pattern of persistent or recurrent 
gambling behaviour that is primarily conducted over the internet and is manifested by:  
1. impaired control over gambling (e.g., onset, frequency, intensity, durat ion, termination, 
context);  
2. increasing priority given to gambling to the extent that gambling takes precedence over other 
life interests and daily activities; and  
3. continuation or escalation of gambling despite the occurrence of negative consequences. The 
behaviour pattern is of sufficient severity to result in significant impairment in personal, family, 
social, educational, occupational or other important areas of functioning.  
The pattern of gambling behaviour may be continuous or episodic and recurrent. Th e gambling 
behaviour and other features are normally evident over a period of at least 12 months in order for a 
diagnosis to be assigned, although the required duration may be shortened if all diagnostic 
requirements are met and symptoms are severe.  
Exclusions:  Hazardous gambling or betting (QE21)  
 
6C50.Z  Gambling disorder, unspecified  
 
  6C51   Gaming disorder  
Gaming disorder is characterised by a pattern of persistent or recurrent gaming 
behaviour (‘digital gaming’ or ‘video -gaming’), which may be online (i.e., over the 
internet) or offline, manifested by:  
1. impaired control over gaming (e.g., onset, frequency , intensity, duration, 
termination, context);  
2. increasing priority given to gaming to the extent that gaming takes precedence 
over other life interests and daily activities; and  
3. continuation or escalation of gaming despite the occurrence of negative 
consequences.  
The pattern of gaming behaviour may be continuous or episodic and recurrent. The 
pattern of gaming behaviour results in marked distress or significant impairment in 
personal, family, social, educational, occupational, or other important areas of 
functioning. The gaming behaviour and other features are normally evident over a 
period of at least 12 months in order for a diagnosis to be assigned, although the 
required duration may be shortened if all diagnostic requirements are met and 
symptoms ar e severe.  
Exclusions:  Hazardous gaming (QE22)  
Bipolar type I disorder (6A60)  
Bipolar type II disorder (6A61)  
 
