  
Anxiety and fear -related disorders are characterised by excessive fear and anxiety and related 
behavioural disturbances, with symptoms that are severe enough to result in significant distress or 
significant impairment in personal, family, social, education al, occupational, or other important areas 
of functioning. Fear and anxiety are closely related phenomena; fear represents a reaction to 
perceived imminent threat in the present, whereas anxiety is more future -oriented, referring to 
perceived anticipated t hreat. A key differentiating feature among the Anxiety and fear -related 
disorders are disorder -specific foci of apprehension, that is, the stimulus or situation that triggers the 
fear or anxiety. The clinical presentation of Anxiety and fear -related disord ers typically includes 
specific associated cognitions that can assist in differentiating among the disorders by clarifying the 
focus of apprehension.  
Coded Elsewhere:  Substance -induced anxiety disorders  
Hypochondriasis (6B23)  
Secondary anxiety syndrome (6E 63) 
  6B00   Generalised anxiety disorder  
Generalised anxiety disorder is characterised by marked symptoms of anxiety that 
persist for at least several months, for more days than not, manifested by either 
general apprehension (i.e. ‘free -floating anxiety’)  or excessive worry focused on 
multiple everyday events, most often concerning family, health, finances, and 
school or work, together with additional symptoms such as muscular tension or 
motor restlessness, sympathetic autonomic over -activity, subjective e xperience of 
nervousness, difficulty maintaining concentration, irritability, or sleep disturbance. 
The symptoms result in significant distress or significant impairment in personal, 
family, social, educational, occupational, or other important areas of fu nctioning. 
The symptoms are not a manifestation of another health condition and are not due 
to the effects of a substance or medication on the central nervous system.  
 430  ICD-11 MMS  
   6B01   Panic disorder  
Panic disorder is characterised by recurrent unexpected panic at tacks that are not 
restricted to particular stimuli or situations. Panic attacks are discrete episodes of 
intense fear or apprehension accompanied by the rapid and concurrent onset of 
several characteristic symptoms (e.g. palpitations or increased heart ra te, sweating, 
trembling, shortness of breath, chest pain, dizziness or lightheadedness, chills, hot 
flushes, fear of imminent death). In addition, panic disorder is characterised by 
persistent concern about the recurrence or significance of panic attacks, or 
behaviours intended to avoid their recurrence, that results in significant impairment 
in personal, family, social, educational, occupational, or other important areas of 
functioning. The symptoms are not a manifestation of another medical condition and 
are not due to the effects of a substance or medication on the central nervous 
system.  
Exclusions:  Panic attack (MB23.H)  
 
  6B02   Agoraphobia  
Agoraphobia is characterised by marked and excessive fear or anxiety that occurs 
in response to multiple situatio ns where escape might be difficult or help might not 
be available, such as using public transportation, being in crowds, being outside the 
home alone (e.g., in shops, theatres, standing in line). The individual is consistently 
anxious about these situation s due to a fear of specific negative outcomes (e.g., 
panic attacks, other incapacitating or embarrassing physical symptoms). The 
situations are actively avoided, entered only under specific circumstances such as 
in the presence of a trusted companion, or e ndured with intense fear or anxiety. The 
symptoms persist for at least several months, and are sufficiently severe to result in 
significant distress or significant impairment in personal, family, social, educational, 
occupational, or other important areas of functioning.  
 
  6B03   Specific phobia  
Specific phobia is characterised by a marked and excessive fear or anxiety that 
consistently occurs upon exposure or anticipation of exposure to one or more 
specific objects or situations (e.g., proximity to certain animals, flying, heights, 
closed spaces,  sight of blood or injury) that is out of proportion to actual danger. 
The phobic objects or situations are avoided or else endured with intense fear or 
anxiety. Symptoms persist for at least several months and are sufficiently severe to 
result in signific ant distress or significant impairment in personal, family, social, 
educational, occupational, or other important areas of functioning.  
Inclusions:  Simple phobia  
Exclusions:  Body dysmorphic disorder (6B21)  
Hypochondriasis (6B23)  
 ICD-11 MMS  431 
   6B04   Social anxiety di sorder  
Social anxiety disorder is characterised by marked and excessive fear or anxiety 
that consistently occurs in one or more social situations such as social interactions 
(e.g. having a conversation), doing something while feeling observed (e.g. eating or 
drinking in the presence of others), or performing in front of others (e.g. giving a 
speech). The individual is concerned that he or she will act in a way, or show 
anxiety symptoms, that will be negatively evaluated by others. Relevant social 
situations  are consistently avoided or else endured with intense fear or anxiety. The 
symptoms persist for at least several months and are sufficiently severe to result in 
significant distress or significant impairment in personal, family, social, educational, 
occup ational, or other important areas of functioning.  
 
  6B05   Separation anxiety disorder  
Separation anxiety disorder is characterised by marked and excessive fear or 
anxiety about separation from specific attachment figures. In children and 
adolescents, sep aration anxiety typically focuses on caregivers, parents or other 
family members and the fear or anxiety is beyond what would be considered 
developmentally normative. In adults, the focus is typically a romantic partner or 
children. Manifestations of separ ation anxiety may include thoughts of harm or 
untoward events befalling the attachment figure, reluctance to go to school or work, 
recurrent excessive distress upon separation, reluctance or refusal to sleep away 
from the attachment figure, and recurrent n ightmares about separation. The 
symptoms persist for at least several months and are sufficiently severe to result in 
significant distress or significant impairment in personal, family, social, educational, 
occupational, or other important areas of functio ning.  
Exclusions:  mood [affective] disorders  (6A60‑6A8Z)  
Selective mutism (6B06)  
Social anxiety disorder (6B04)  
 
  6B06   Selective mutism  
Selective mutism is characterised by consistent selectivity in speaking, such that a 
child demonstrates adequate lang uage competence in specific social situations, 
typically at home, but consistently fails to speak in others, typically at school. The 
disturbance lasts for at least one month, is not limited to the first month of school, 
and is of sufficient severity to in terfere with educational achievement or with social 
communication. Failure to speak is not due to a lack of knowledge of, or comfort 
with, the spoken language required in the social situation (e.g. a different language 
spoken at school than at home).  
Exclu sions:  Schizophrenia (6A20)  
transient mutism as part of separation anxiety in young 
children (6B05)  
Autism spectrum disorder (6A02)  
 
  6B0Y   Other specified anxiety or fear -related disorders  
 
  6B0Z   Anxiety or fear -related disorders, unspecified  
 432  ICD-11 MMS  
