6C40.0  Episode of harmful use of alcohol  

  
Disorders due to substance use include disorders that result from a single occasion or repeated use 
of substances that have psychoactive prop erties, including certain medications. Disorders related to 
fourteen classes or groups of psychoactive substances are included. Typically, initial use of these 
substances produces pleasant or appealing psychoactive effects that are rewarding and reinforcin g 
with repeated use. With continued use, many of the included substances have the capacity to 
produce dependence. They also have the potential to cause numerous forms of harm, both to mental 
and physical health. Disorders due to harmful non -medical use of non-psychoactive substances are 
also included in this grouping.  
Coded Elsewhere:  Catatonia induced by substances or medications (6A41)  
  6C40   Disorders due to use of alcohol  
Disorders due to use of alcohol are characterised by the pattern and consequence s 
of alcohol use. Alcohol —more specifically termed ethyl alcohol or ethanol —is an 
intoxicating compound produced by fermentation of sugars usually in agricultural 
products such as fruits, cereals, and vegetables with or without subsequent 
distillation. The re are a wide variety of alcoholic drinks, with alcohol concentrations 
typically ranging from 1.5% to 60%. Alcohol is predominantly a central nervous 
system depressant. In addition to ability to produce Alcohol Intoxication, alcohol has 
dependence -producin g properties, resulting in Alcohol Dependence in some people 
and Alcohol Withdrawal when alcohol use is reduced or discontinued. Unlike most 
other substances, elimination of alcohol from the body occurs at a constant rate, 
such that its clearance follows a  linear rather than a logarithmic course. Alcohol is 
implicated in a wide range of harms affecting most organs and systems of the body 
(e.g., cirrhosis of the liver, gastrointestinal cancers, pancreatitis). Harm to others 
resulting from behaviour during Al cohol Intoxication is well recognized and is 
included in the definitions of harmful use of alcohol (i.e., Episode of Harmful Use of 
Alcohol and Harmful Pattern of Use of Alcohol). Several alcohol -induced mental 
disorders (e.g., Alcohol -Induced Psychotic Di sorder) and alcohol -related forms of 
neurocognitive impairment (e.g., Dementia Due to Use of Alcohol) are recognized.  
Exclusions:  Hazardous alcohol use (QE10)  
 ICD-11 MMS  455 
 