6C43.0  Episode of harmful use of opioids  


Synthetic cannabinoid -induced anxiety disorder is characterised by anxiety 
symptoms (e.g., apprehension or worry, fear, physiological symptoms of excessive 
autonomic arousal, avoidance behaviour) that develop during or soon after 
intoxication with or withdrawal from synthetic cannabinoids. The intensity or duration 
of the symptoms is substantially in excess of anxiety symptoms that are 
characteristic of Synthetic cannabinoid intoxication or Synthetic cannabinoi d 
withdrawal. The amount and duration of synthetic cannabinoid use must be capable 
of producing anxiety symptoms. The symptoms are not better explained by a 
primary mental disorder (e.g., an Anxiety and Fear -Related Disorder, a Depressive 
Disorder with pro minent anxiety symptoms), as might be the case if the anxiety 
symptoms preceded the onset of the synthetic cannabinoid use, if the symptoms 
persist for a substantial period of time after cessation of the synthetic cannabinoid 
use or withdrawal, or if there  is other evidence of a pre -existing primary mental 
disorder with anxiety symptoms (e.g., a history of prior episodes not associated with 
synthetic cannabinoid use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C42.Y  Other specified disorders due to use of synthetic cannabinoids  
 
6C42.Z  Disorders due to use of synthetic cannabinoids, unspecified  
 
  6C43   Disorders due to use of opioids  
Disorders due to use of opioids are characterised by the pattern and consequences 
of opioid use. Opioids is a generic te rm that encompasses the constituents or 
derivatives of the opium poppy Papaver somniferum as well as a range of synthetic 
and semisynthetic compounds, some related to morphine and others chemically 
distinct but all having their primary actions on the µ opi oid receptor. Examples of 
opioids include morphine, diacetylmorphine (heroin), fentanyl, pethidine, 
oxycodone, hydromorphone, methadone, buprenorphine, codeine and d -
propoxyphene. The opioids all have analgesic properties of different potencies and 
are pri marily central nervous system depressants. They suppress respiration as well 
as other vital functions and are a common cause of overdose and related deaths. 
Certain opioids are used or administered parenterally, including heroin, a common 
and potent opioid  that is primarily used non -medically. Therapeutic opioids are 
prescribed for a range of indications worldwide, and are essential for pain 
management in cancer pain and palliative care, although they are also used for 
non-therapeutic reasons. In some count ries morbidity and mortality related to 
therapeutic opioids is greater than that related to heroin. All opioids may result in 
Opioid Intoxication, Opioid Dependence and Opioid Withdrawal. A range of Opioid -
Induced Disorders occur, some of which occur follo wing Opioid Withdrawal.  
Exclusions:  Hazardous use of opioids (QE11.0)  
 472  ICD-11 MMS  
 