6C44.0  Episode of harmful use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics  


Opioid -induced anxiety disorder is characterised by anxiety symptoms (e.g., 
apprehension or worry, fear, physiological symptoms of excessive autonomic 
arousal, avoidance behaviour) that develop during or soon after intoxicati on with or 
withdrawal from opioids. The intensity or duration of the symptoms is substantially in 
excess of anxiety symptoms that are characteristic of Opioid intoxication or Opioid 
withdrawal. The amount and duration of opioid use must be capable of produ cing 
anxiety symptoms. The symptoms are not better explained by a primary mental 
disorder (e.g., an Anxiety and Fear -Related Disorder, a Depressive Disorder with 
prominent anxiety symptoms), as might be the case if the anxiety symptoms 
preceded the onset o f the opioid use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial 
period of time after cessation of the opioid use or withdrawal, or if there is other 
evidence of a pre -existing primary mental disorder with anxiety symptoms (e.g., a 
history of prior episodes not  associated with opioid use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C43.Y  Other specified disorders due to use of opioids  
 
6C43.Z  Disorders due to use of opioids, unspecified  
 
  6C44   Disorders due to use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics  
Disorders due to use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics are characterised by the 
pattern and consequences of use of these substances. Sedatives, hypnotics, and 
anxiolytics are typically prescr ibed for the short -term treatment of anxiety or 
insomnia and are also employed to provide sedation for medical procedures. They 
include the benzodiazepines and the non -benzodiazepine positive allosteric 
modulators of GABA receptors (i.e., ‘Z -drugs’) as wel l as many other compounds. 
Sedatives, hypnotics, and anxiolytics include barbiturates, which are available much 
less commonly now than in previous decades. Sedatives, hypnotics, and anxiolytics 
have dependence -inducing properties that are related to the do se and duration of 
their use. They may cause intoxication, dependence and withdrawal. Several other 
mental disorders induced by sedatives, hypnotics, or anxiolytics are recognized.  
Exclusions:  Hazardous use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics (QE11.2)  
 ICD-11 MMS  477 
 