6C45.0  Episode of harmful use of cocaine  


Sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic -induced anxiety disorder is characterised by anxiety 
symptoms (e.g., apprehension or worry, fear, physiological symptoms of excessive 
autonomic arousal, avoidance behaviour) that develop during or soon after 
intoxication with or withdrawal from sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics. The intensity 
or duration of the symptoms is substantially in excess of anxiety symptoms that are 
characteristic of intoxication or withdrawal due to sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics. 
The amount and duration of sedative, hypnot ic or anxiolytic use must be capable of 
producing anxiety symptoms. The symptoms are not better explained by a primary 
mental disorder (e.g., an Anxiety and Fear -Related Disorder, a Depressive Disorder 
with prominent anxiety symptoms), as might be the case  if the anxiety symptoms 
preceded the onset of the sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic use, if the symptoms 
persist for a substantial period of time after cessation of the sedative, hypnotic or 
anxiolytic use or withdrawal, or if there is other evidence of a pre-existing primary 
mental disorder with anxiety symptoms (e.g., a history of prior episodes not 
associated with sedative, hypnotic or anxiolytic use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C44.Y  Other specified disorders due to use of sedatives,  hypnotics or anxiolytics  
 
6C44.Z  Disorders due to use of sedatives, hypnotics or anxiolytics, unspecified  
 
  6C45   Disorders due to use of cocaine  
Disorders due to use of cocaine are characterised by the pattern and consequences 
of cocaine use. Cocaine i s a compound found in the leaves of the coca plant, 
Erythroxylum coca, which is indigenous to countries in northern regions of South 
America. Cocaine has a limited place in medical treatment as an anaesthetic and 
vasoconstrictive agent. It is commonly used  illicitly and widely available across the 
world, where it is found in two main forms: cocaine hydrochloride and cocaine 
freebase (also known as ‘crack’). Cocaine is a central nervous system stimulant, 
and Cocaine Intoxication typically includes a state of  euphoria and hyperactivity. 
Cocaine has potent dependence -producing properties and Cocaine Dependence is 
a common cause of morbidity and of clinical presentations. Cocaine Withdrawal has 
a characteristic course that includes lethargy and depressed mood. A  range of 
Cocaine -Induced Mental Disorders is described.  
Exclusions:  Disorders due to use of stimulants including amphetamines, 
methamphetamine or methcathinone (6C46)  
Hazardous use of cocaine (QE11.3)  
 484  ICD-11 MMS  
 