6C46.0  Episode of harmful use of stimulants including amphetamines, 


Cocaine -induced impulse control disor der is characterised by persistently repeated 
behaviours in which there is recurrent failure to resist an impulse, drive, or urge to 
perform an act that is rewarding to the person, at least in the short -term, despite 
longer -term harm either to the individu al or to others (e.g., fire setting or stealing 
without apparent motive, repetitive sexual behaviour, aggressive outbursts) that 
develop during or soon after intoxication with or withdrawal from cocaine. The 
intensity or duration of the symptoms is substan tially in excess of disturbances of 
impulse control that are characteristic of Cocaine intoxication or Cocaine 
withdrawal. The amount and duration of cocaine use must be capable of producing 
disturbances of impulse control. The symptoms are not better expl ained by a 
primary mental disorder (e.g., an Impulse control disorder, a Disorder due to 
addictive behaviours), as might be the case if the impulse control disturbances 
preceded the onset of the cocaine use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial 
period  of time after cessation of the cocaine use or withdrawal, or if there is other 
evidence of a pre -existing primary mental disorder with impulse control symptoms 
(e.g., a history of prior episodes not associated with cocaine use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C45.Y  Other specified disorders due to use of cocaine  
 
6C45.Z  Disorders due to use of cocaine, unspecified  
 490  ICD-11 MMS  
   6C46   Disorders due to use of stimulants including amphetamines, 
methamphetamine or methcathinone  
Disorders due  to use of stimulants including amphetamines, methamphetamine or 
methcathinone are characterised by the pattern and consequences of use of these 
substances. There is a wide array of naturally occurring and synthetically produced 
psychostimulants other than  cocaine. The most numerous of this group are the 
amphetamine -type substances, including methamphetamine. Prescribed stimulants 
including dexamphetamine are indicated for a limited number of conditions such as 
for Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder. Methcathinone, known in many countries 
as ephedrone, is a synthetic potent stimulant that is a structural analogue of 
methamphetamine and is related to cathinone. All these drugs have primarily 
psychostimulant properties and are also vasoconstrictors to a varying degree. They 
induce euphoria and hyperactivity as may be seen in Stimulant Intoxication. They 
have potent dependence -producing properties, which may lead to the diagnosis of 
Stimulant Dependence and Stimulant Withdrawal following the cessation of u se. 
Several Stimulant -Induced Mental Disorders are described.  
Exclusions:  Disorders due to use of synthetic cathinones (6C47)  
Disorders due to use of caffeine (6C48)  
Disorders due to use of cocaine (6C45)  
Hazardous use of stimulants including amphetamines or 
methamphetamine (QE11.4)  
 
