6C48.0 Episode of harmful use of caffeine  


Synthetic cathinone -induced impulse control disorder is characterised by 
persistently repeated behaviours in which there is recurrent failure to resist an 
impulse, drive, or urge to perform an act that is rewarding to the  person, at least in 
the short -term, despite longer -term harm either to the individual or to others (e.g., 
fire setting or stealing without apparent motive, repetitive sexual behaviour, 
aggressive outbursts) that develop during or soon after intoxication w ith or 
withdrawal from synthetic cathinones. The intensity or duration of the symptoms is 
substantially in excess of disturbances of impulse control that are characteristic of 
Synthetic cathinone intoxication or Synthetic cathinone withdrawal. The amount a nd 
duration of synthetic cathinone use must be capable of producing disturbances of 
impulse control. The symptoms are not better explained by a primary mental 
disorder (e.g., an Impulse control disorder, a Disorder due to addictive behaviours), 
as might be  the case if the impulse control disturbances preceded the onset of the 
synthetic cathinone use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial period of time after 
cessation of the synthetic cathinone use or withdrawal, or if there is other evidence 
of a pre -existing primary mental disorder with impulse control symptoms (e.g., a 
history of prior episodes not associated with synthetic cathinone use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C47.Y  Other specified disorders due to use of synthetic cathinones  
 
6C47.Z  Disorders due to use of synthetic cathinones, unspecified  
 506  ICD-11 MMS  
   6C48   Disorders due to use of caffeine  
Disorders due to use of caffeine are characterised by the pattern and consequences 
of caffeine use. Caffeine is a mild psychostimulant and diuretic that is found in the 
beans of the coffee plant (Coffea species) and is a constituent of coffee, cola drinks,  
chocolate, a range of proprietary 'energy drinks' and weight -loss aids. It is the most 
commonly used psychoactive substance worldwide and several clinical conditions 
related to its use are described, although severe disorders are comparatively rare 
consid ering its ubiquity. Caffeine Intoxication related to consumption of relatively 
higher doses (i.e., > 1 g per day) is described. Caffeine Withdrawal is common upon 
cessation of use among individuals who have used caffeine for a prolonged period 
or in large amounts. Caffeine -Induced Anxiety Disorder has been described, often 
following intoxication or heavy use.  
Exclusions:  Disorders due to use of stimulants including amphetamines, 
methamphetamine or methcathinone (6C46)  
Hazardous use of caffeine (QE11.5)  
 
