6C49.0  Episode of harmful use of hallucinogens  


Caffeine -induced anxiety disorder is characterised by anxiety symptoms (e.g., 
apprehension or worry, fear, physiological symptoms of excessive autonomic 
arousal, avoidance behaviour) that develop during or soon after intoxication with or 
withdrawal from caffeine. The intensity or duration of the symptoms is substantially 
in excess of anxiety symptoms that are characteristic of Caffeine intoxication or 
Caffeine withdrawal. The amount and duration of caffeine use must be  capable of 
producing anxiety symptoms. The symptoms are not better explained by a primary 
mental disorder (e.g., an Anxiety and fear -related disorder, a Depressive disorder 
with prominent anxiety symptoms), as might be the case if the anxiety symptoms 
preceded the onset of the caffeine use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial 
period of time after cessation of the caffeine use or withdrawal, or if there is other 
evidence of a pre -existing primary mental disorder with anxiety symptoms (e.g., a 
history of prior episodes not associated with caffeine use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C48.Y  Other specified disorders due to use of caffeine  
 
6C48.Z  Disorders due to use of caffeine, unspecified  
 508  ICD-11 MMS  
   6C49   Disorders due to use of hallucinogens  
Disorders due to use of hallucinogens are characterised by the pattern and 
consequences of hallucinogen use. Several thousand compounds have 
hallucinogenic properties, many of which are found in plants (e.g., mescaline) and 
fungi (e.g., psilocybin) or are  chemically synthesized (e.g., lysergic acid 
diethylamide [LSD]). These compounds have primarily hallucinogenic properties, 
but some may also be stimulants. Much of the morbidity associated with these 
compounds arises from the acute effects related to Hall ucinogen Intoxication. 
Hallucinogen Dependence is rare and Hallucinogen Withdrawal is not described. 
Among the mental disorders related to hallucinogen use, Hallucinogen -Induced 
Psychotic Disorder is the most frequently seen, although worldwide it is still  fairly 
uncommon.  
 
