6C4A.0  Epis ode of harmful use of nicotine  


Hallucinogen -induced anxiety disorder is characterised by anxiety symptoms (e.g., 
apprehension or worry, fear, physiological symptoms of excessive autonomic 
arousal, avoid ance behaviour) that develop during or soon after intoxication with 
hallucinogens. The intensity or duration of the symptoms is substantially in excess 
of anxiety symptoms that are characteristic of hallucinogen intoxication. The amount 
and duration of hal lucinogen use must be capable of producing anxiety symptoms. 
The symptoms are not better explained by a primary mental disorder (e.g., an 
Anxiety and Fear -Related Disorder, a Depressive Disorder with prominent anxiety 
symptoms), as might be the case if the  anxiety symptoms preceded the onset of the 
hallucinogen use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial period of time after 
cessation of the hallucinogen use, or if there is other evidence of a pre -existing 
primary mental disorder with anxiety symptoms (e .g., a history of prior episodes not 
associated with hallucinogen use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C49.Y  Other specified disorders due to use of hallucinogens  
 
6C49.Z  Disorders due to use of hallucinogens, unspecified  
 
  6C4A   Disorder s due to use of nicotine  
Disorders due to use of nicotine are characterised by the pattern and consequences 
of nicotine use. Nicotine is the active dependence -producing constituent of the 
tobacco plant, Nicotiana tabacum. Nicotine is used overwhelmingly th rough 
smoking cigarettes. Increasingly, it is also used in electronic cigarettes that vaporize 
nicotine dissolved in a carrier solvent for inhalation (i.e., “vaping”). Pipe smoking, 
chewing tobacco and inhaling snuff are minor forms of use. Nicotine is a h ighly 
potent addictive compound and is the third most common psychoactive substance 
used worldwide after caffeine and alcohol. Nicotine Dependence and Nicotine 
Withdrawal are well described and Nicotine -Induced Mental Disorders are 
recognized.  
 
