6C4B.0  Episode of harmful use of volatile inhalants  


Nicotine withdrawal is a clinically significant cluster of symptoms, behaviours and/or 
physiological features, varying in degree of severity and duration, that occurs upon 
cessation or reduction of use of nicotine (typically u sed as a constituent of tobacco) 
in individuals who have developed Nicotine dependence or have used nicotine for a 
prolonged period or in large amounts. Presenting features of Nicotine withdrawal 
may include dysphoric or depressed mood, insomnia, irritabil ity, anger, anxiety, 
difficulty concentrating, restlessness, bradycardia, increased appetite, and craving 
for tobacco (or other nicotine -containing products). Other physical symptoms may 
include increased cough and mouth ulceration.  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4A.Y  Other specified disorders due to use of nicotine  
 
6C4A.Z  Disorders due to use of nicotine, unspecified  
 
  6C4B   Disorders due to use of volatile inhalants  
Disorders due to use of volatile inhalants are characterised by the pa ttern and 
consequences of volatile inhalant use. Volatile inhalants include a range of 
compounds that are in the gaseous or vapour phase at ambient temperatures and 
include various organic solvents, glues, gasoline (petrol), nitrites and gases such as 
nitrous oxide, trichloroethane, butane, toluene, fluorocarbons, ether and halothane. 
They have a range of pharmacological properties but are predominantly central 
nervous system depressants, with many also having vasoactive effects. They tend 
to be used by you nger persons and may be used when access to alternative 
psychoactive substances is difficult or impossible. Volatile Inhalant Intoxication is 
well recognized. Volatile inhalants have dependence -producing properties and 
Volatile Inhalant Dependence and Vola tile Inhalant Withdrawal is recognized 
although comparatively uncommon worldwide. Volatile Inhalant -Induced Mental 
Disorders are described. They may also cause neurocognitive impairment, including 
Dementia.  
 
