6C4C.0  Episode of harmful use of MDMA or related drugs, including MDA  


Volatile inhalant -induced anxiety disorder is characterised by anxiety symptoms 
(e.g., apprehension or worry, fe ar, physiological symptoms of excessive autonomic 
arousal, avoidance behaviour) that develop during or soon after intoxication with or 
withdrawal from volatile inhalants. The intensity or duration of the symptoms is 
substantially in excess of anxiety sympt oms that are characteristic of Volatile 
inhalant intoxication or Volatile inhalant withdrawal. The amount and duration of 
volatile inhalant use must be capable of producing anxiety symptoms. The 
symptoms are not better explained by a primary mental disorde r (e.g., an Anxiety 
and Fear -Related Disorder, a Depressive Disorder with prominent anxiety 
symptoms), as might be the case if the anxiety symptoms preceded the onset of the 
volatile inhalant use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial period of time af ter 
cessation of the volatile inhalant use or withdrawal, or if there is other evidence of a 
pre-existing primary mental disorder with anxiety symptoms (e.g., a history of prior 
episodes not associated with volatile inhalant use).  
Coding Note:  Code also th e causing condition  
 
6C4B.Y  Other specified disorders due to use of volatile inhalants  
 
6C4B.Z  Disorders due to use of volatile inhalants, unspecified  
 
  6C4C   Disorders due to use of MDMA or related drugs, including MDA  
Disorders due to use of MDMA or re lated drugs, including MDA are characterised 
by the pattern and consequences of MDMA or related drug use. MDMA is 
methylene -dioxymethamphetamine and is a common drug of abuse in many 
countries especially among young people. It is predominantly available in  tablet 
form known as ‘ecstasy’. Pharmacologically, MDMA has stimulant and 
empathogenic properties and these encourage its use among young people for 
social and other interactions. Considering its wide prevalence in many countries and 
among many sub -groups  of young people, MDMA and Related Drug Dependence 
and MDMA and Related Drug Withdrawal are comparatively uncommon. 
Substance -Induced Mental Disorders may arise from its use. Several analogues of 
MDMA exist, including MDA (methylene -dioxyamphetamine).  
Exclusions:  Hazardous use of MDMA or related drugs (QE11.6)  
 
