6C41.0  Episode of harmful use of cannabis  


Alcohol -induced anxiety disorder is characterised by anxiety sy mptoms (e.g., 
apprehension or worry, fear, physiological symptoms of excessive autonomic 
arousal, avoidance behaviour) that develop during or soon after intoxication with or 
withdrawal from alcohol. The intensity or duration of the symptoms is substantiall y in 
excess of anxiety symptoms that are characteristic of Alcohol intoxication or Alcohol 
withdrawal. The amount and duration of alcohol use must be capable of producing 
anxiety symptoms. The symptoms are not better explained by a primary mental 
disorder (e.g., an Anxiety and Fear -Related Disorder, a Depressive Disorder with 
prominent anxiety symptoms), as might be the case if the anxiety symptoms 
preceded the onset of the alcohol use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial 
period of time after cessatio n of the alcohol use or withdrawal, or if there is other 
evidence of a pre -existing primary mental disorder with anxiety symptoms (e.g., a 
history of prior episodes not associated with alcohol use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C40.Y  Othe r specified disorders due to use of alcohol  
 
6C40.Z  Disorders due to use of alcohol, unspecified  
 
  6C41   Disorders due to use of cannabis  
Disorders due to use of cannabis are characterised by the pattern and 
consequences of cannabis use. Cannabis is the collective term for a range of 
psychoactive preparations of the cannabis plant, Cannabis sativa, and related 
species and hybrids. Cannabis contains cannabinoids, a class of diverse chemical 
compounds that act on endogenous cannabinoid receptors that modula te 
neurotransmitter release in the brain. The principal psychoactive cannabinoid is δ -9-
tetrahydrocannabinol (THC). Cannabis is typically smoked in the form of the 
flowering heads or leaves of the marijuana plant; tobacco is often mixed with 
cannabis when smoked. There are also cannabis oils that are prepared from these 
same sources. These preparations vary considerably in their THC potency. 
Cannabis has predominantly central nervous system depressant effects and 
produces a characteristic euphoria that may be part of the presenting features of 
Cannabis Intoxication, which may also include impairment in cognitive and 
psychomotor functioning. Cannabis has dependence -producing properties resulting 
in Cannabis Dependence in some people and Cannabis Withdrawal wh en use is 
reduced or discontinued. Cannabis is associated with a range of Cannabis -Induced 
Mental Disorders.  
Exclusions:  Disorders due to use of synthetic cannabinoids (6C42)  
Hazardous use of cannabis (QE11.1)  
 462  ICD-11 MMS  
 