6C4D.0  Episode of harmful use of dissociative drugs including ketamine or PCP  


MDMA or related drug -induced anxiety disorder, including MDA is characterised by 
anxiety symptoms (e.g., apprehension or worry, fear, physiological sy mptoms of 
excessive autonomic arousal, avoidance behaviour) that develop during or soon 
after intoxication with MDMA or related drugs. The intensity or duration of the 
symptoms is substantially in excess of anxiety symptoms that are characteristic of 
MDMA or related drug intoxication, including MDA. The amount and duration of 
MDMA or related drug use must be capable of producing anxiety symptoms. The 
symptoms are not better explained by a primary mental disorder (e.g., an Anxiety 
and fear -related disorder, a Depressive disorder with prominent anxiety symptoms), 
as might be the case if the anxiety symptoms preceded the onset of the MDMA or 
related drug use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial period of time after 
cessation of the MDMA or related drug us e, or if there is other evidence of a pre -
existing primary mental disorder with anxiety symptoms (e.g., a history of prior 
episodes not associated with MDMA or related drug use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C4C.Y  Other specified disorder s due to use of MDMA or related drugs, including 
MDA  
 
6C4C.Z  Disorders due to use of MDMA or related drugs, including MDA, unspecified  
 
  6C4D   Disorders due to use of dissociative drugs including ketamine and 
phencyclidine [PCP]  
Disorders due to use of dissociative drugs including ketamine and phencyclidine 
[PCP] are characterised by the pattern and consequences of dissociative drug use. 
Dissociative drugs include ketamine and phencyclidine (PCP) and their 
(comparatively rare) che mical analogues. Ketamine is an intravenous anaesthetic 
widely used in low - and middle -income countries, particularly in Africa, and in 
emergency situations. Ketamine is also undergoing evaluation for treatment of 
some mental disorders (e.g., treatment res istant Depressive Disorders). It is also a 
widespread drug of nonmedical use in many countries and may be taken by the oral 
or nasal routes or injected. It produces a sense of euphoria but depending on the 
dose, emergent hallucinations and dissociation are  recognised as unpleasant side 
effects. Phencyclidine has a more restricted worldwide distribution and also has 
euphoric and dissociative effects. Its use may result in bizarre behaviour 
uncharacteristic for the individual, including self -harm. Dissociativ e Drug 
Dependence is described but a withdrawal syndrome is not recognized by most 
authorities. Several Dissociative Drug -Induced Mental Disorders are recognised.  
Exclusions:  Hazardous use of dissociative drugs including ketamine or 
PCP (QE11.7)  
 526  ICD-11 MMS  
 