6C42.0  Episode of harmful use of synthetic cannabinoids  


Cannabis -induced anxiety disorder is characterised by anxiety symptoms (e.g., 
apprehension or worry, fear, physiological symptoms of excessive autonomic 
arousal, avoidance behaviour) that develop during or soon after intoxi cation with or 
withdrawal from cannabis. The intensity or duration of the symptoms is substantially 
in excess of anxiety symptoms that are characteristic of Cannabis intoxication or 
Cannabis withdrawal. The amount and duration of cannabis use must be capab le of 
producing anxiety symptoms. The symptoms are not better explained by a primary 
mental disorder (e.g., an Anxiety and Fear -Related Disorder, a Depressive Disorder 
with prominent anxiety symptoms), as might be the case if the anxiety symptoms 
preceded the onset of the cannabis use, if the symptoms persist for a substantial 
period of time after cessation of the cannabis use or withdrawal, or if there is other 
evidence of a pre -existing primary mental disorder with anxiety symptoms (e.g., a 
history of pri or episodes not associated with cannabis use).  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 
6C41.Y  Other specified disorders due to use of cannabis  
 
6C41.Z  Disorders due to use of cannabis, unspecified  
 
  6C42   Disorders due to use of synthetic cannabinoids  
Disorders due to use of synthetic cannabinoids are characterised by the pattern and 
consequences of synthetic cannabinoid use. Synthetic cannabinoids are 
synthesized diverse chemical compounds that are potent agonists for endogenous 
cannabinoid receptors. There are several hundred such compounds. The synthetic 
compound is typically sprayed onto a vehicle such as cannabis or tea leaves and 
then smoked. The effect of these compounds is distinctly different from s moking 
naturally cultivated cannabis in that the euphoric effects are typically accompanied 
or dominated by psychotic -like symptoms (e.g., paranoia, hallucinations, and 
disorganized behavior). Synthetic Cannabinoid Intoxication may therefore present 
more f requently with psychotic symptoms in addition to the more typical effects of 
cannabis. Synthetic cannabinoids are also dependence -producing and Synthetic 
Cannabinoid Dependence and Synthetic Cannabinoid Withdrawal are recognized. 
Synthetic Cannabinoid -Induced Mental Disorders also occur; in particular Synthetic 
Cannabinoid -Induced Psychotic Disorder is recognized.  
Exclusions:  Disorders due to use of cannabis (6C41)  
 
