6A23.0  Acute and transient psychotic disorder, first episode  


 
6A21.Y  Other specified schizoaffective disorder  
 
6A21.Z  Schizoaffective disorder, unspecified  
 
  6A22   Schizotypal disorder  
Schizotypal disorder is characterised by an enduring pattern (i.e. characteristic of 
the person’s functioning over a period of at least several years) of eccentricities in 
behaviour, appearance and speech, accompanied by cognitive and perceptual 
distortion s, unusual beliefs, and discomfort with — and often reduced capacity for — 
interpersonal relationships. Symptoms may include constricted or inappropriate 
affect and anhedonia. Paranoid ideas, ideas of reference, or other psychotic 
symptoms, including halluci nations in any modality, may occur, but are not of 
sufficient intensity or duration to meet the diagnostic requirements of schizophrenia, 
schizoaffective disorder, or delusional disorder. The symptoms cause distress or 
impairment in personal, family, socia l, educational, occupational or other important 
areas of functioning.  
Inclusions:  Schizotypal personality disorder  
Exclusions:  Autism spectrum disorder (6A02)  
Personality disorder (6D10)  
 ICD-11 MMS  405 
   6A23   Acute and transient psychotic disorder  
Acute and transient psychotic disorder is characterised by acute onset of psychotic 
symptoms that emerge without a prodrome and reach their maximal severity within 
two weeks. Symptoms may include delusions, hallucinat ions, disorganisation of 
thought processes, perplexity or confusion, and disturbances of affect and mood. 
Catatonia -like psychomotor disturbances may be present. Symptoms typically 
change rapidly, both in nature and intensity, from day to day, or even with in a single 
day. The duration of the episode does not exceed 3 months, and most commonly 
lasts from a few days to 1 month. The symptoms are not a manifestation of another 
medical condition (e.g. a brain tumour) and are not due to the effect of a substance 
or medication on the central nervous system (e.g. corticosteroids), including 
withdrawal (e.g. alcohol withdrawal).  
 
