6A05.0  Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, predominantly inattentive 


Developmental learning disorder with other specified impairment of learning is 
characterised by significant and persistent difficulties  in learning academic skills 
other than reading, mathematics, and written expression. The individual’s 
performance in the relevant academic skill is markedly below what would be 
expected for chronological age and level of intellectual functioning and resul ts in 
significant impairment in the individual’s academic or occupational functioning. 
Developmental learning disorder with other specified impairment of learning is not 
due to a disorder of intellectual development, sensory impairment (vision or 
hearing),  neurological disorder, lack of availability of education, lack of proficiency in 
the language of academic instruction, or psychosocial adversity.  
Exclusions:  Disorders of intellectual development (6A00)  
 
6A03.Z  Developmental learning disorder, unspecified  
 ICD-11 MMS  397 
   6A04   Developmental motor coordination disorder  
Developmental motor coordination disorder is characterised by a significant delay in 
the acquisition of gross and fine motor skills and impairment in the execution of 
coordinated motor skills that manife st in clumsiness, slowness, or inaccuracy of 
motor performance. Coordinated motor skills are markedly below that expected 
given the individual's chronological age and level of intellectual functioning. Onset of 
coordinated motor skills difficulties occurs during the developmental period and is 
typically apparent from early childhood. Coordinated motor skills difficulties cause 
significant and persistent limitations in functioning (e.g. in activities of daily living, 
school work, and vocational and leisure a ctivities). Difficulties with coordinated 
motor skills are not solely attributable to a Disease of the Nervous System, Disease 
of the Musculoskeletal System or Connective Tissue, sensory impairment, and not 
better explained by a Disorder of Intellectual De velopment.  
Exclusions:  Abnormalities of gait and mobility (MB44)  
Diseases of the musculoskeletal system or connective tissue  
(Chapter 15)  
Diseases of the nervous system  (Chapter 08)  
 
  6A05   Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder  
Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder is characterised by a persistent pattern (at 
least 6 months) of inattention and/or hyperactivity -impulsivity that has a direct 
negative impact on academic, occupational, or s ocial functioning. There is evidence 
of significant inattention and/or hyperactivity -impulsivity symptoms prior to age 12, 
typically by early to mid -childhood, though some individuals may first come to 
clinical attention later. The degree of inattention an d hyperactivity -impulsivity is 
outside the limits of normal variation expected for age and level of intellectual 
functioning. Inattention refers to significant difficulty in sustaining attention to tasks 
that do not provide a high level of stimulation or f requent rewards, distractibility and 
problems with organisation. Hyperactivity refers to excessive motor activity and 
difficulties with remaining still, most evident in structured situations that require 
behavioural self -control. Impulsivity is a tendency to act in response to immediate 
stimuli, without deliberation or consideration of the risks and consequences. The 
relative balance and the specific manifestations of inattentive and hyperactive -
impulsive characteristics varies across individuals and may ch ange over the course 
of development. In order for a diagnosis to be made, manifestations of inattention 
and/or hyperactivity -impulsivity must be evident across multiple situations or 
settings (e.g., home, school, work, with friends or relatives), but are l ikely to vary 
according to the structure and demands of the setting. Symptoms are not better 
accounted for by another mental, behavioural, or neurodevelopmental disorder and 
are not due to the effect of a substance or medication.  
Inclusions:  attention defi cit disorder with hyperactivity  
attention deficit syndrome with hyperactivity  
 398  ICD-11 MMS  
 