  
Catatonia is a syndrome of primarily psychomotor disturbances, characterized by the co -occurrence 
of several symptoms of decreased, increased, or abnormal psychomotor activity. The assessment of 
catatonia is complex and requires observation, interview and physical exam. Catatonia can occur in 
the context of another mental disorder, such as Schizophrenia or Other Primary Psychotic Disorders, 
Mood Disorders, and Neurodevelopmental Disorders, especially Autism Spectrum Disorder. Catatonia 
can also develop duri ng or soon after intoxication or withdrawal from certain psychoactive substances, 
including phencyclidine (PCP), cannabis, hallucinogens such as mescaline or LSD, cocaine and 
MDMA or related drugs, or during the use of certain psychoactive and non -psychoac tive medications 
(e.g. antipsychotic medications, benzodiazepines, steroids, disulfiram, ciprofloxacin). Finally, 
Catatonia can occur as a direct pathophysiological consequence of a medical condition not classified 
under Mental, Behavioural or Neurodevelop mental Disorders. Examples of medical conditions that 
may be associated with Catatonia include diabetic ketoacidosis, hypercalcemia, hepatic 
encephalopathy, homocystinuria, neoplasms head trauma, cerebrovascular disease, and encephalitis.  
Exclusions:  Harmf ul effects of drugs, medicaments or biological substances, not elsewhere 
classified (NE60)  
Coded Elsewhere:  Secondary catatonia syndrome (6E69)  
  6A40   Catatonia associated with another mental disorder  
Catatonia associated with another mental disorder is a syndrome of primarily 
psychomotor disturbances, characterized by the co -occurrence of several 
symptoms of decreased, increased, or abnormal psychomotor activity, which occurs 
in the context of another mental disorder, such as Schizophrenia or Other Prima ry 
Psychotic Disorders, Mood Disorders, and Neurodevelopmental Disorders, 
especially Autism Spectrum Disorder.  
 410  ICD-11 MMS  
   6A41   Catatonia induced by substances or medications  
Catatonia induced by substances or medications is a syndrome of primarily 
psychomotor di sturbances, characterized by the co -occurrence of several 
symptoms of decreased, increased, or abnormal psychomotor activity, which 
develops during or soon after intoxication or withdrawal from certain psychoactive 
substances, including phencyclidine (PCP) , cannabis, hallucinogens such as 
mescaline or LSD, cocaine and MDMA or related drugs, or during the use of certain 
psychoactive and non -psychoactive medications (e.g. antipsychotic medications, 
benzodiazepines, steroids, disulfiram, ciprofloxacin).  
Exclus ions:  Neuroleptic malignant syndrome  (8A00‑8A0Z)  
Serotonin syndrome (8D85)  
 
  6A4Z   Catatonia, unspecified  
Coding Note:  Code also the causing condition  
 ICD-11 MMS  411 
