  
Disorders specifically associated with stress are directly related to exposure to a stressful or traumatic 
event, or a series of such events o r adverse experiences. For each of the disorders in this grouping, 
an identifiable stressor is a necessary, though not sufficient, causal factor. Although not all individuals 
exposed to an identified stressor will develop a disorder, the disorders in this grouping would not have 
occurred without experiencing the stressor. Stressful events for some disorders in this grouping are 
within the normal range of life experiences (e.g., divorce, socio -economic problems, bereavement). 
Other disorders require the expe rience of a stressor of an extremely threatening or horrific nature (i.e., 
potentially traumatic events). With all disorders in this grouping, it is the nature, pattern, and duration 
of the symptoms that arise in response to the stressful events —together w ith associated functional 
impairment —that distinguishes the disorders.  
Exclusions:  Burnout (QD85)  
Acute stress reaction (QE84)  
  6B40   Post traumatic stress disorder  
Post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) may develop following exposure to an 
extremely thre atening or horrific event or series of events. It is characterised by all 
of the following: 1) re -experiencing the traumatic event or events in the present in 
the form of vivid intrusive memories, flashbacks, or nightmares. Re -experiencing 
may occur via on e or multiple sensory modalities and is typically accompanied by 
strong or overwhelming emotions, particularly fear or horror, and strong physical 
sensations; 2) avoidance of thoughts and memories of the event or events, or 
avoidance of activities, situati ons, or people reminiscent of the event(s); and 3) 
persistent perceptions of heightened current threat, for example as indicated by 
hypervigilance or an enhanced startle reaction to stimuli such as unexpected 
noises. The symptoms persist for at least sever al weeks and cause significant 
impairment in personal, family, social, educational, occupational or other important 
areas of functioning.  
Inclusions:  Traumatic neurosis  
Exclusions:  Acute stress reaction (QE84)  
Complex post traumatic stress disorder (6B41)  
 
  6B41   Complex post traumatic stress disorder  
Complex post traumatic stress disorder (Complex PTSD) is a disorder that may 
develop following exposure to an event or series of events of an extremely 
threatening or horrific nature, most commonly prolonged  or repetitive events from 
which escape is difficult or impossible (e.g. torture, slavery, genocide campaigns, 
prolonged domestic violence, repeated childhood sexual or physical abuse). All 
diagnostic requirements for PTSD are met. In addition, Complex PTS D is 
characterised by severe and persistent 1) problems in affect regulation; 2) beliefs 
about oneself as diminished, defeated or worthless, accompanied by feelings of 
shame, guilt or failure related to the traumatic event; and 3) difficulties in sustainin g 
relationships and in feeling close to others. These symptoms cause significant 
impairment in personal, family, social, educational, occupational or other important 
areas of functioning.  
Exclusions:  Post traumatic stress disorder (6B40)  
Personality disord er (6D10)  
 438  ICD-11 MMS  
   6B42   Prolonged grief disorder  
Prolonged grief disorder is a disturbance in which, following the death of a partner, 
parent, child, or other person close to the bereaved, there is persistent and 
pervasive grief response characterised by longi ng for the deceased or persistent 
preoccupation with the deceased accompanied by intense emotional pain (e.g. 
sadness, guilt, anger, denial, blame, difficulty accepting the death, feeling one has 
lost a part of one’s self, an inability to experience positi ve mood, emotional 
numbness, difficulty in engaging with social or other activities). The grief response 
has persisted for an atypically long period of time following the loss (more than 6 
months at a minimum) and clearly exceeds expected social, cultural or religious 
norms for the individual’s culture and context. Grief reactions that have persisted for 
longer periods that are within a normative period of grieving given the person’s 
cultural and religious context are viewed as normal bereavement responses and are 
not assigned a diagnosis. The disturbance causes significant impairment in 
personal, family, social, educational, occupational or other important areas of 
functioning.  
 
  6B43   Adjustment disorder  
Adjustment disorder is a maladaptive reaction to a n identifiable psychosocial 
stressor or multiple stressors (e.g. divorce, illness or disability, socio -economic 
problems, conflicts at home or work) that usually emerges within a month of the 
stressor. The disorder is characterised by preoccupation with th e stressor or its 
consequences, including excessive worry, recurrent and distressing thoughts about 
the stressor, or constant rumination about its implications, as well as by failure to 
adapt to the stressor that causes significant impairment in personal, family, social, 
educational, occupational or other important areas of functioning. The symptoms 
are not better explained by another mental disorder (e.g., Mood Disorder, another 
Disorder Specifically Associated with Stress) and typically resolve within 6 m onths, 
unless the stressor persists for a longer duration.  
Exclusions:  separation anxiety disorder of childhood (6B05)  
Recurrent depressive disorder (6A71)  
Single episode depressive disorder (6A70)  
Prolonged grief disorder (6B42)  
Uncomplicated bereavement (QE62)  
Burnout (QD85)  
Acute stress reaction (QE84)  
 ICD-11 MMS  439 
   6B44   Reactive attachment disorder  
Reactive attachment disorder is characterised by grossly abnormal attachment 
behaviours in early childhood, occurring in the context of a history of grossly 
inadequate child care (e.g., severe neglect, maltreatment, institutional deprivation). 
Even when an  adequate primary caregiver is newly available, the child does not 
turn to the primary caregiver for comfort, support and nurture, rarely displays 
security -seeking behaviours towards any adult, and does not respond when comfort 
is offered. Reactive attachm ent disorder can only be diagnosed in children, and 
features of the disorder develop within the first 5 years of life. However, the disorder 
cannot be diagnosed before the age of 1 year (or a developmental age of less than 
9 months), when the capacity for selective attachments may not be fully developed, 
or in the context of Autism spectrum disorder.  
Exclusions:  Asperger syndrome (6A02)  
disinhibited attachment disorder of childhood (6B45)  
 
  6B45   Disinhibited social engagement disorder  
Disinhibited social  engagement disorder is characterised by grossly abnormal social 
behaviour, occurring in the context of a history of grossly inadequate child care 
(e.g., severe neglect, institutional deprivation). The child approaches adults 
indiscriminately, lacks retice nce to approach, will go away with unfamiliar adults, 
and exhibits overly familiar behaviour towards strangers. Disinhibited social 
engagement disorder can only be diagnosed in children, and features of the 
disorder develop within the first 5 years of life . However, the disorder cannot be 
diagnosed before the age of 1 year (or a developmental age of less than 9 months), 
when the capacity for selective attachments may not be fully developed, or in the 
context of Autism spectrum disorder.  
Exclusions:  Asperger  syndrome (6A02)  
Adjustment disorder (6B43)  
Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (6A05)  
reactive attachment disorder of childhood (6B44)  
 
  6B4Y   Other specified disorders specifically associated with stress  
 
  6B4Z   Disorders specifically associated  with stress, unspecified  
 440  ICD-11 MMS  
