6A61.0  Bipolar type II disorder, current epi sode hypomanic  


Bipolar type I disorder, current episode mixed, without psychotic symptoms is 
diagnosed when the definitional requirements for Bipolar type I disorder are met and 
the current episode is mixed and there are no delusions or hal lucinations present 
during the episode. A mixed episode is characterised by the presence of several 
prominent manic and several prominent depressive symptoms consistent with those 
observed in manic episodes and depressive episodes, which either occur 
simul taneously or alternate very rapidly (from day to day or within the same day). 
Symptoms must include an altered mood state consistent with a manic and/or 
depressive episode (i.e., depressed, dysphoric, euphoric or expansive mood), and 
be present most of the  day, nearly every day, during a period of at least 2 weeks, 
unless shortened by a treatment intervention. If the individual has experienced 
Manic or Mixed Episodes in the past, a duration of 2 weeks is not required in order 
to diagnose a current episode i f all other diagnostic requirements are met.  
 
6A60.A  Bipolar type I disorder, current episode mixed, with psychotic symptoms  
Bipolar type I disorder, current episode mixed, with psychotic symptoms is 
diagnosed when the definitional requirements for Bipolar  type I disorder are met and 
the current episode is mixed and there are delusions or hallucinations present 
during the episode. A mixed episode is characterised by the presence of several 
prominent manic and several prominent depressive symptoms consistent  with those 
observed in manic episodes and depressive episodes, which either occur 
simultaneously or alternate very rapidly (from day to day or within the same day). 
Symptoms must include an altered mood state consistent with a manic and/or 
depressive epis ode (i.e., depressed, dysphoric, euphoric or expansive mood), and 
be present most of the day, nearly every day, during a period of at least 2 weeks, 
unless shortened by a treatment intervention. If the individual has experienced 
Manic or Mixed Episodes in the past, a duration of 2 weeks is not required in order 
to diagnose a current episode if all other diagnostic requirements are met.  
 
6A60.B  Bipolar type I disorder, currently in partial remission, most recent episode 
manic or hypomanic  
Bipolar type I diso rder, currently in partial remission, most recent episode manic or 
hypomanic is diagnosed when the definitional requirements for Bipolar type I 
disorder have been met and the most recent episode was a manic or hypomanic 
episode. The full definitional requi rements for a manic or hypomanic episode are no 
longer met but some significant mood symptoms remain. In some cases, residual 
mood symptoms may be depressive rather than manic or hypomanic, but do not 
satisfy the definitional requirements for a depressive episode.  
 
6A60.C  Bipolar type I disorder, currently in partial remission, most recent episode 
depressive  
Bipolar type I disorder, currently in partial remission, most recent episode 
depressive is diagnosed when the definitional requirements for Bipolar typ e I 
disorder have been met and the most recent episode was a depressive episode. 
The full definitional requirements for the episode are no longer met but some 
significant depressive symptoms remain.  
 416  ICD-11 MMS  
 6A60.D  Bipolar type I disorder, currently in partial rem ission, most recent episode 
mixed  
Bipolar type I disorder, currently in partial remission, most recent episode mixed is 
diagnosed when the definitional requirements for Bipolar type I disorder have been 
met and the most recent episode was a mixed episode. The full definitional 
requirements for the episode are no longer met but some significant mood 
symptoms remain.  
 
6A60.E  Bipolar type I disorder, currently in partial remission, most recent episode 
unspecified  
Bipolar type I disorder, currently in partial r emission, most recent episode 
unspecified is diagnosed when the definitional requirements for Bipolar type I 
disorder have been met but there is insufficient information to determine the nature 
of the most recent mood episode. The full definitional require ments for a mood 
episode are no longer met but some significant mood symptoms remain.  
 
6A60.F  Bipolar type I disorder, currently in full remission  
Bipolar type I disorder, currently in full remission is diagnosed when the full 
definitional requirements for  Bipolar I disorder have been met in the past but there 
are no longer any significant mood symptoms.  
 
6A60.Y  Other specified bipolar type I disorder  
 
6A60.Z  Bipolar type I disorder, unspecified  
 
  6A61   Bipolar type II disorder  
Bipolar type II disorder is an episodic mood disorder defined by the occurrence of 
one or more hypomanic episodes and at least one depressive episode. A 
hypomanic episode is a persistent mood state lasting for at least several days 
characterised by persist ent elevation of mood or increased irritability as well as 
increased activity or a subjective experience of increased energy, accompanied by 
other characteristic symptoms such as increased talkativeness, rapid or racing 
thoughts, increased self -esteem, dec reased need for sleep, distractability, and 
impulsive or reckless behavior. The symptoms represent a change from the 
individual’s typical mood, energy level, and behavior but are not severe enough to 
cause marked impairment in functioning. A depressive epi sode is characterised by 
a period of depressed mood or diminished interest in activities occurring most of the 
day, nearly every day during a period lasting at least two weeks accompanied by 
other symptoms such as changes in appetite or sleep, psychomotor agitation or 
retardation, fatigue, feelings of worthless or excessive or inappropriate guilt, feelings 
or hopelessness, difficulty concentrating, and suicidality. There is no history of 
manic or mixed episodes.  
 ICD-11 MMS  417 
 