6A80.0  Prominent anxiety symptoms in mood episodes  


Recurrent depressive disorder, currently in full remission is diagnosed when the 
definitional requirements for recurrent depressive disorder have been met but 
currently there are no significant mood symptoms.  
 
6A71.Y  Other specified recurrent depressive disorder  
 
6A71.Z  Recurrent depressive disorder, unspecified  
 
  6A72   Dysthymic disor der 
Dysthymic disorder is characterised by a persistent depressive mood (i.e., lasting 2 
years or more), for most of the day, for more days than not. In children and 
adolescents depressed mood can manifest as pervasive irritability. The depressed 
mood is a ccompanied by additional symptoms such as markedly diminished interest 
or pleasure in activities, reduced concentration and attention or indecisiveness, low 
self-worth or excessive or inappropriate guilt, hopelessness about the future, 
disturbed sleep or i ncreased sleep, diminished or increased appetite, or low energy 
or fatigue. During the first 2 years of the disorder, there has never been a 2 -week 
period during which the number and duration of symptoms were sufficient to meet 
the diagnostic requirements for a Depressive Episode. There is no history of Manic, 
Mixed, or Hypomanic Episodes.  
Inclusions:  Dysthymia  
Exclusions:  anxiety depression (mild or not persistent) (6A73)  
 ICD-11 MMS  427 
   6A73   Mixed depressive and anxiety disorder  
Mixed depressive and anxiety disorder is characterised by symptoms of both 
anxiety and depression more days than not for a period of two weeks or more. 
Depressive symptoms include depressed mood or markedly diminished interest or 
pleasure in activities. Th ere are multiple anxiety symptoms, which may include 
feeling nervous, anxious, or on edge, not being able to control worrying thoughts, 
fear that something awful will happen, having trouble relaxing, muscle tension, or 
sympathetic autonomic symptoms. Neith er set of symptoms, considered separately, 
is sufficiently severe, numerous, or persistent to justify a diagnosis of another 
depressive disorder or an anxiety or fear -related disorder. The symptoms result in 
significant distress or significant impairment i n personal, family, social, educational, 
occupational or other important areas of functioning. There is no history of manic or 
mixed episodes, which would indicate the presence of a bipolar disorder.  
 
  6A7Y   Other specified depressive disorders  
 
  6A7Z   Depressive disorders, unspecified  
 
  6A80   Symptomatic and course presentations for mood episodes in mood 
disorders  
These categories may be applied to describe the presentation and characteristics of 
mood episodes in the context of single episode  depressive disorder, recurrent 
depressive disorder, bipolar type I disorder, or bipolar type II disorder. These 
categories indicate the presence of specific, important features of the clinical 
presentation or of the course, onset, and pattern of mood epis odes. These 
categories are not mutually exclusive, and as many may be added as apply.  
Coding Note:  These categories should never be used in primary coding. The codes are provided 
for use as supplementary or additional codes when it is desired to identify s pecific 
clinically important features of mood episodes in mood disorders.  
Coded Elsewhere:  Mental or behavioural disorders associated with pregnancy, 
childbirth or the puerperium, without psychotic symptoms 
(6E20)  
Mental or behavioural disorders associated  with pregnancy, 
childbirth or the puerperium, with psychotic symptoms 
(6E21)  
 
